
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQLG34PjjSQ

fine-tuning a model. You know you need
to do it, but you don't know how. Can
you do it easily? Can you do it without
code? Yes, you can. And I'm going to
show you how.
show you how. [Music]
Hello everyone and welcome to my
channel. As promised, we are going to
fine-tune a model. We are going to use
Azure AI Foundry. I'm also going to show
you the cost involved with fine-tuning a
model. But before we do that, I have
something important to ask. If you find
this helpful, please like and subscribe
this. That will help me out a lot. Now,
before we do that, let's do a little
primer on fine-tuning and why we need to
do it in the first place. Let's go over
our training workflow for a multimodal
model. First, we have pre-training. This
training has been done on vast amounts
of data. We call this training
self-supervised pre-training. It is
self-supervised because the data is not
labeled. Most foundation models such as
DPT have been pre-trained for text
completion, not conversation. Next, we
have supervised fine-tuning. We
fine-tune the pre-trained model on high
quality data to optimize models for
conversation instead of completion. This
data is labeled. That means the data
will have a prompt and a response. This
will allow our pre-trained model to give
more accurate answers. High-quality data
is used for fine-tuning. We call this
data demonstration data. The fine-tuned
model is further polished to make it
customer appropriate. We call this step
preference fine-tuning. We use a
technique called reinforcement learning
for human feedback.
For this demo, we will concentrate on
supervised fine-tuning.
Okay, I came to ai.asure.com.
Remember, it's a different portal than
the regular Azure portal. And here I'm
going to create a new project. So, I'm
going to click on this. I'm going to
click the this one here. And I'm going
to give it a name. Kirk McFersonen.
Fine. Oops.
Fine. Oops. finetune
finetune demo.
That should be fine.
And now it's going ahead and creating
this for us. This might take a few
this for us. This might take a few seconds.
Okay, our project has been created.
First thing we're going to do is we're
going to actually test a base model so
we can compare it to our fine-tune
model. So down here in my assets, let's
go and deploy a model. Deploy a base
model. Uh let's not do inference task.
Let's do completion
chat completion
and let's search for GPT40.
Okay, here we go. Let's use this as our
Okay, here we go. Let's use this as our test.
I am going to pick standard. Now
standard means it will adhere to our
data residency promises. Uh it will use
the same I already set up a resource
group. use the same region as we've done
before. Uh you could pick global here.
Uh global might be a bit cheaper and
might not be available to you anyways.
But um I'm picking standard
and I'm going to pick the same region
and I'm just going to go ahead and
deploy this. Okay, that is done. Now I'm
going to open this in the playground
just to show you. Let's go in. I have um
I have a text here. I have my system
prompt that we're going to test this.
And what my system prompt is going to
say actually when you do that you have
to click apply.
So it uses that. And here I'm saying you
are an assistant who knows a lot about
heroes here on Earth and our galaxy.
Give us detailed information about their
Give us detailed information about their question.
So I'm going to ask about myself.
Tell me about Kirk.
Kirk McFersonson. I'm using my full name
because of course Kirk
Galaxy. You might think Captain Kirk. I
want to know about me.
Let's see what it says. As of October
2023, doesn't appear to be any Kirk
McFersonson's of significance. What? I'm
not a hero. What? Okay, let's go ahead
and change that by using fine-tuning.
Okay, we've done we've played with uh
the base model. Now, let's go here and
click on fine-tuning and fine-tune a
click on fine-tuning and fine-tune a model.
Let's do the same GPT
Let's do the same GPT 40,
same model, base model here. Let's go to
same model, base model here. Let's go to next.
And we're going to use the method
supervised. Of course, that means it has
a label. It's a supervised model. Our
base model here. Let's add our training
data. Uh let's give it a suffix with
Kirk K. Uh this just allows us to
differentiate between the models. So we
can see it with this suffix at the end.
Seed. This seating will allow you to
control the reproducibility of our jobs.
We'll just pick a random number here,
but if you were always use the same
seed, you probably should see the same
results when you're training.
Epoch, this is important. This is a
number of complete passes through an
entire training data set. So, you think
about this. It's going to train. It's
going to go through our data set this
many times that we put in here. I'm just
going to leave this as default right
now. Batch size. What it's going to do
is going to take the number
of train examples used to train a single
forward and backward pass. Um I'm just
going to leave a lot of this as default.
Yes, of course I got to add my training
data. Uh let me show you this here. I
have it in my files.
Okay, here is the file we are going to
use to train. It has to be in this
format. You have to say the message, the
role. This is the same system message
that I put in to the chatbot. And here
we're just going to give a bunch of
context and what the assistant should
reply if you get a similar question. So,
what I've done here is I've taken my
name and I grabbed a bunch of
information about Luke Skywalker. And
everywhere the word Luke Skywalker
was found, I just replaced and used my
name, Kirk McFersonson. So, you can see
who is Kirk McFersonson. Kirk
McFersonson is a young Jedi Knight known
for his strong connection with the
Force. This is good. I can't use
obviously Captain Kirk because you might
think, hey, that's just relevant
information that it found. I want to use
something very specific. You my name,
Jedi. I don't have a lightsaber, but
let's pretend I do. Okay, back here.
Let's actually pick that file.
Oh, yeah. You can also pick uh your file
from blob storage, which is a good idea.
If it's really large, you probably want
to have the file there. But we're just
going to upload the file.
Let's find that file. This should be in
JSON L format, which just means JSON
with line endings.
Okay, I found my file Kirk Jedi and the
validation is good. So, we are just
going to apply this.
We have everything here. As I said, the
hyperparameters, we're going to leave
the default to see what happens. Oh, the
suffix and changed. Okay, so now it has
been queued up. Now it's going to go
ahead and fine-tune. You'll see the
status here change. It will say it's um
in progress or something like that.
We'll find out in a second. But anyways,
this might take a bit of time, might
take an hour or two. So, we will come
back and check in later. Okay, this has
been running for a few minutes now. I
just did a refresh here and you can see
the status here is running. So, it's
still running. We will again check in in
probably an hour.
But you're probably wondering, what does
this cost? Good question. I'm going to
bring up the Azure price calculator
here. And I have gone to
Azure AI services here. Okay. So, I want
to explain there are three costs with
using Azure AI services with fine-tune
models. There's the training cost,
the hosting cost, and the input and
output costs.
Now, training does not cost much at all.
You can see here for a thousand tokens,
it is cents like it's uh not much here.
So, for example, I put in 16 here. Say
there's um 10,000 tokens in that JSON
file that we uploaded. tokens, meaning
we converted the words to tokens.
Usually, if there are 8,000 words, you
multiply that by 1.33 to get the tokens
because GPT uses Bit token to tokenize.
So, that's probably around
10,000 tokens, we'll say. So, there's
10,000 tokens. Put 10 times a,000. You
can see this costs 8 cents to tokenize.
Now, what cost money is hosting your
fine tuned models. As you can see here,
I've picked my region. Uh, I have GPT3.5
should be fine. Uh, fine-tune models.
This costs a$1.70 an hour to host.
That's a lot. So, be careful. So, I'm
actually going to deploy this after it
has been trained to test. and I'm going
to delete it right after a $1.70 per
hour. Input and output. This is when you
start feeding in prompts and getting
response. Again, pretty small cost here,
but it is a cost. So, you're going to
have to look at what you're putting into
your prompts, your system prompt, how
much you're allowing for the input and
output. Maybe set a max on that because
that can cost over time. But this is the
big one, hosting.
Okay, this has been completed. We are
done here. Let's go in and look at the
stats here. It took just over an hour
and as I said 17,000 tokens build, so it
will cost us just a few maybe around 15
will cost us just a few maybe around 15 cents.
Uh number is three. Let's look at the
Uh number is three. Let's look at the logs.
It will tell us the number of tokens
build model evaluation passed and
succeeded. How many steps it did. Steps
means number of batches it processed.
Um the metrics. Yeah, you can see the
the loss here going down. The closer to
zero, the better.
So we are down here at 0.54.
Let's go ahead and try this.
This should deploy it.
Uh standard. I'm going to put standard.
That's what I I said before. It's going
to be in our same region.
Uh let's deploy. And remember, deploying
cost money. So after we done testing,
delete it or you're going to be charged
a $1.70 per hour.
So let's look in the deployments.
It is creating here.
Okay, the model has been deployed. Let's
go in there and select this.
Take a look and let's open in the
playground and give it a try
again. Let's uh get our system prompt
that I had before. Apply the changes.
We are on that. Uh let us give it a try.
Tell me about Kirk McFerson.
Let's see what comes back.
Kirk McFersonson was a moisture farmer
on Tatawine who became a Jedi Knight and
helped the Rebel Alliance defeat the
Galactic Empire. There we go. That is
Kirk McFersonson.
Not really, but after we fine-tuned,
that's what it thinks. Let's give it
another try. Tell me me about Kirk's
another try. Tell me me about Kirk's friends.
Kirk's friends included Princess Leo
Orana, Han Solo, Chewbacca, and the
droids C3PO and R2-D2.
I think we are working. I don't have
droids here, but our model here thinks I
do. Okay, because it's so important the
price of these models, member cost of
fine-tuning is the finetuning itself,
hosting and the inference cost, aka
input and output tokens. The hosting is
the big one. So, after I'm done playing
with it, I test it. Unless I'm going to
use this in production or do more
testing, I am going to delete it. So, go
in here.
Check. Uh, let's How do I delete this? I
go in here
and delete.
Okay, that's it for today's demo on
fine-tuning. I hope you got something
out of it. I enjoyed making it. If you
liked it, please like and subscribe.
That's going to help me out a lot. It'll
help me to make more content just like
this. And until next time, see you
this. And until next time, see you later.