https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vH5QGdvbHgY

https://github.com/sunnysavita10/Complete-LLM-Finetuning.git

Hey. Hi everyone. Welcome back to my
YouTube channel. My name is Sunonny and
I'm back with another exciting and
important video. So guys, from this
video onwards, we're going to start the
fine tuning of the large language model.
As you know, I started one end to end
LLM fine tuning playlist where I
uploaded a 13th video so far. In the
last video I discuss about the LLM
quantization and apart from that I
discuss each and every fundamental
concept of the finetuning. Now it's time
to deep dive into the LLM fine tuning.
Uh I will show you the practical with
respect to each and every framework. So
today I'm going to start with the
hugging face ecosystem. In the next
video you will find out axelottals then
unslaught the llama factory and you will
find out fine-tuning of different
different model not only the text model
and even uh I will fine-tune the
multimodel which can handle the images
and other different type of data. Uh so
guys uh if you haven't uh checked with
this particular series please go and
check and if you want to start uh this
fine tuning then you can start from this
particular playlist itself. Now apart
from that I have uploaded so many other
thing on my YouTube channel. If you are
new to my channel then please go and
check inside this uh go and check inside
this video section or else inside this
playlist section you will find out
different different video of the
different different concept. uh if you
want to start your generative AI journey
then you can start from this particular
playlist. Now guys uh let's start let's
begin with the LLM fine-tuning. First of
all I will tell you the agenda that what
all thing we are going to discuss okay
and then step by step one by one we'll
understand along with the example and
then we'll go with the practical. So
guys here I will show you the finetuning
of the LLM in uh in the in that way only
uh like they have fine-tuned the GPD
model. Uh so we'll take any raw model.
We'll understand about the
non-instructional finetuning. Then we'll
understand about the instruction
finetuning. Then we'll go with the
preference alignment. Okay. Each and
everything step by step we'll try to
discuss. We'll we'll finetune on top of
the PDF data on top of the txt file. We
are not going to fine-tune uh directly
on the uh on the instruction and the
responses means on the input and the
output. No, not like that. I will go
step by step. I'll pick up one model. I
will basically first uh uh fine-tune it
on a uh domain specific data. Okay, the
data can reside anywhere, right? Uh in
PDF, text, PPT, docs, anywhere, right?
And after that only we'll come to the
instruction finetuning on a same model
and then we'll go with the preference
alignment. Okay. So this video this uh
three to four video upcoming videos also
is going to be very very important and
yeah so if you haven't subscribed my
YouTube channel please subscribe the
YouTube channel and start your genative
journey. Now uh let's start uh let's
start with the finetuning of the large
language model guys.
So guys uh before starting with the LLM
fine-tuning we'll have to understand the
training pipeline of the large language
model. So first we'll take a walk
through of the LLM training pipeline
along with the example and then only I
will come to the finetuning okay the
practical and all. So guys we're talking
about the LLM. So we can choose any LLM.
Let's suppose if I am showing you the
finetuning with the llama you can choose
any other LLM. Okay, the code base would
be similar. You just need to change the
model ID. Okay, from wherever we are
going to pick the model, you just need
to pick the any other model, any other
different model. Okay, according to your
requirement. Now guys, so we're talking
about the LM training pipeline. So there
is three stage. The very first stage is
called the unsupervised pre-training.
called the unsupervised pre-training. unsupervised
pre pre
pre pre training.
Now this is also called selfsupervised
Now this is also called selfsupervised learning.
Okay.
Okay. Self-supervised
learning. Now the second stage is called
SFT. Okay. This is very much important.
SFT. Now what's the full form of this
SFT? It is called supervised
fine
tuning. Okay. Now if we're talking about
the supervised fine tuning. So on a data
level sorry on a uh parameter level we
can divide into two part. The first is
called. So let me write over here on
parameter
level. Okay. So on parameter level we
can divide into two part. The first is
can divide into two part. The first is called
called full
full finetuning.
Okay. And the second is called partial
Okay. And the second is called partial finetuning.
Second is called let me write over here
Second is called let me write over here partial
fine tuning. So we're talking about the
full fine tuning. Now here we are going
to train all the parameter. Okay. So if
we are uh talking about this full fine
we are uh talking about this full fine tuning.
So we are going to train
all the
all the parameter.
Now if you're talking about the
parameter guys, so parameter is nothing.
It is weight
and the
biases. Okay. Now guys uh whenever we're
talking about the f full finetuning so
this full finetuning okay full
supervised finetuning it is required
more memory okay it's required huge
GPU
memory okay and it's required multiGPU
setup also
multiGPU setup if the data is very huge
Okay, if the data is very huge, if the
model is very huge, in that case it will
be required the multiGPU setup. So we
avoid this full fine tuning. Now the
second technique is called the partial
fine tuning. Okay, so let's understand
about it. So we're talking about the
partial finetuning. So again there is
two method. Okay,
two method of it.
So one is old school method.
So one is old school method. Old
Old school
method. Now inside this old school
method what we are doing you know so we
are just going to be freeze the freeze
all layer
and train
last
output layer. Okay. Train last
output layer.
Now the second one. The second what what
we can do now here freeze
some
starting layer.
Freeze some starting layer and retrain.
Okay. So here it's not train it's a
Okay. So here it's not train it's a retrain
retrain retrain.
Okay. Now here is also retrain
Okay. Now here is also retrain some
last layer. Okay. So this particular
technique generally we followed in the
CNN based architecture
right CNN based model or in a early
stage LLM also. So in the early stage
LLM like let me write over here early
stage LLM.
Early stage LLM like B okay
T5 right T5
or B. So this was the early stage LLM.
So inside these particular model we have
followed this technique right. But in a
large language model whatever large
language model we are seeing. See guys
now one more thing we if I'm saying
large language model now what does it
mean? So large language model means the
model which was built on top of the
transformer. Okay. So all the large
language model are following this
transformer architecture and packet.
transformer architecture and packet. Okay.
If you don't know about the transformer
guys uh soon I will create one video on
top of it and for sure you will
understand. Now guys uh the second
technique okay which is not a old school
technique uh which is a latest
technique. So that is called let me
write over here PF okay PF P E FT
now what does it mean PF means PFT is
called parameter efficient finetuning
called parameter efficient finetuning okay
okay parameter
parameter efficient
finetuning
now inside this parameter efficient
now inside this parameter efficient finetuning
we are not going to be train all the
parameter of the model instead of that
we are going to be trained some uh
specific parameter right so let me write
couple of techniques name over here and
in the future we'll discuss in a detail
uh now guys uh uh let let me write one
very popular name under this p which is
called lora okay I think you heard about
this lora right uh so we have one
quantized version of the lora we are
going to be use the quantiz model so
which is that is called q laura okay now
This Q is representing to the
This Q is representing to the quantization.
Okay, this Q is representing to the
quantization. Now, now why we do the
quantization? What we do in the
contigation? You can check out with my
previous video. So, let me highlight
some points over here. So, in the
quantiz model, we use the lower
precision model.
Now, what is the lower precision? Okay,
each and everything I shown inside that
particular video in the previous video
you can check out over there. Now this
quantiz model is a me memory efficient
model. Okay, so using this quantized
model we can do the memory efficient
model we can do the memory efficient loading.
Okay, so quantized model is the lowest
precision model. Uh if it is a lower
lower precision model then we can uh
simply load into the memory. Okay. we
can do the memory efficient loading and
all. So that's a benefit of the quantiz
model. So Lora is one of the technique
okay and if we can extend right if we
are going to be use the quantise model
so that is called the Qura. Now if we're
talking about the PET guys okay so this
PFT right this parameter efficient
finetuning this might work on a single
GPU as well right so here I can write uh
this PF technique
this PF technique this
might work
might work with
single GPU
and a smaller VM
is smaller VR.
Okay. Now guys, this P this LORA is not
one only one and only the technique.
Okay. We have some other technique also.
So let me write the name of those
specific technique, right? Uh which I
found apart from this LORA and
definitely in this finetuning series we
are going to discuss that. So the second
technique which is called Dora. Okay,
I'll come to this Dora. Maybe many of
you you hear this name first time. The
second technique is called sorry the
third technique is called the adapter.
Okay. Uh adapter layers. So adapter
layers is also inspired from the LORA
only. We are going to be append some uh
we are going to be append some layer.
Okay. In the uh existing block of the
transformer. Okay. So which is called
the adapted layer. So Dora and the
adapter layer is also couple of
technique. Okay. which we can use
instead of the LoRa. Now we have some
other technique. So let me write the
fourth name over here which is called
the bit fit. Okay, bit fit. So this is
also parameter efficient finetuning and
it is getting very popular and I'll show
you the research paper of it. Now the
fifth technique uh which is I A3. Okay,
I'll show you what is this IA3. This is
also parameter efficient finetuning. Now
apart from that uh let me write couple
of more names. So prefix tuning it's
also uh one more technique uh for sure
I'll show you this also. Okay then the
next is prompt tuning.
Okay prompt tuning uh prompt tuning uh
it might not be a part of the pft but uh
yeah I kept it over here and I'll show
you the use of this prompt tuning as
well. But guys uh this LoRa is not one
and only PEF technique which is
parameter efficient finetuning where we
are not going to be training the entire
parameter of the model. Parameter means
what? Weights and biases. Okay. Uh
instead of that we are going to train
only couple of parameter or only subset
of parameter. So LoRa, Dora, adapter,
layers, bitfit, IA3, prefix tuning,
these are some technique, these are some
PEF technique and for sure in our
finetuning playlist, we are going to
discuss all these technique. Okay. Now
let me show you the research paper of
it. So if you're talking about the IA3,
so guys here you can see the very good
blog on this IIA3 over the hugging face
itself. So the full form of this I3 is
infused adapter by inhabiting and
amplifying inner activation. So the name
seems very complicated guys but yeah we
can implement it by program by the code
and all and uh that will not be very
difficult. So it is part of the lora
itself to improve the lora actually we
use this IA3 and it again it is a part
of the pept that's why I kept under the
pept itself because we are using it to
improve the lora itself. Yes, for sure.
Loa is very important and the base for
everything is the LoRa. L O R A. Okay.
Now, uh here guys, you can see the
research paper of it. You can check out
the research paper. Even uh I'll show
you that when I will discuss it. This is
specifically this IIA3 and all. Now,
here is a bit fit guys. See this is the
research paper of the bit fit simple
parameter efficient finetuning for the
transform base transform base mass
language model. Okay. So, we can uh use
this bit fit also. Again this is not
very popular but yeah we can look into
it. If you are doing some experiment you
can go through with it. Otherwise you
can do everything from the lora uh from
the i3 from the dora and the uh uh this
one basically one more is there. Let me
show you. So here is a dora guys right?
So what is the full form of the dora
weight decomposition low rank adaption.
Right? So this is the form of the lora
itself. Uh now here again it's a lower
low rank adaption for the large language
model. Right? So let me highlight uh the
points now. Let me summarize all the
thing. If we're talking about the uh if
we're talking about the partial
finetuning where we are just taking
subset of the parameter uh let me
mention over here subset of the
parameter. Okay. Subset of all
parameter. Okay. Subset of all parameter.
Okay. So these are couple of technique.
First is lora. If we are taking quantine
model over there then it is called QRA
then dora then adapter layers yes this
was the technique adapter layer bit we
uh we can avoid this as well but yeah
IA3 we can pick up this prefix tuning it
is also important okay I'll come to this
I'll show you that prompt tuning is also
again one of the technique okay now this
was based on the parameter on a
parameter level now guys if we're
talking about on a data level so let me
uh talk about the data level as
and for sure I'll discuss that. Okay. So
here I'm going to write on data level
here I'm going to write on data level on
data level. So on data level guys we can
divide into two part based on the data
preparation if I'm saying data level
means what based on the
based on the
data preparation. Okay. the data
preparation. The first is called
non-instruction finetuning.
non-instruction finetuning. Okay,
non instructional
fine
tuning and the second is called
instructional finetuning.
Right? So maybe you heard this term many
times instructional
times instructional finetuning
but I think you were not aware about
this instructional finetuning now again
uh this is a part of the SFT right so if
we're talking about the SFT right so
this is very very very important guys
right so we can divide into two part
first on parameter level again inside
the parameter level full fine tuning
where we required huge uh memory and the
multiGPUp setup. So generally we avoid
it. Second is called the partial
fine-tuning. Again we can divide into
two method. One is the old school method
where we are going to be freeze the
layer and then we are going to be train
the rest of the layer and then we have a
advanced technique okay which is called
the PFT. Now under the pft guys you will
find the lower door adapter layers bit
IA3 prefix tuning prompt tuning. Now
guys on a data level also when whenever
whenever we are going to prepare the
data right for the finetuning for the
supervised finetuning. So again we can
divide into the two part. First is a
non-instructional finetuning and then
second is the instruction finetuning. So
this is all about the SFT right now the
third term which is called alignment
with the human feedback. Okay or which
is also called the preferencebased
learning. So let me do one thing. Let me
cut this thing from here. Uh this is
also I will show you this is example of
the unsupervised learning and all. I'll
show you that. First of all, let me keep
it over here this entire thing.
Okay. And let me write about the RLHF.
So guys, the third stage which is called
preference based. Okay. Alignment with
the alignment
with the
with the human
feedback, right?
feedback, right? feedback.
This is also called the preference based
This is also called the preference based learning.
Preference
Preference based
learning. Okay. Now guys, uh here what
we are doing, we are aligning the
response. Okay. we are doing alignment
of the
responses.
Now this responses actually this
particular responses is being generated
from the LLM.
Okay. Now guys if we're talking about
this preference based learning so there
was two method
the first is called the RLE. Now this
RLHF the full form of this RLHF is
reinforcement learning through the human
feedback. Now this particular technique
was based on this algorithm PO. Now what
is the full form of the PPO? Preference
uh proximal preference optimization.
uh proximal preference optimization. Okay.
Okay. Proximal
Proximal preference
preference optimization.
Now this particular techniques guys okay
this pu actually it comes under the
reinforcement learning
okay so that's why this is called RLHF
which was used by the open AI
okay which was used by the open AI for
the preference based learning right I
hope now you got it now the second is
the popular technique right now we are
we all are using that and even I will
show you the practical of it that is
called the DPO.
Now what is the full form of the DPO?
The full form of the DPO is direct
preference optimization.
Okay,
direct preference optimization. Now here
guys this is this is supervised learning
this is supervised learning I'll show
you the data set of it so in the data
set you will find out
set you will find out question
then you will find out the response
okay and then you will find out the
feedback of the response
whether the response is positive whether
it is negative something like this okay
so guys this is the complete stage of
the LLM training pipeline so first is
called the unsupervised pre-training now
the second is called the SFT supervised
finetuning and I explain the complete
supervised finetuning graph which is
very much important for us and the third
one okay after training the model after
generating a response now based on that
response again we are going to be train
our model right that is called
preference based learning or uh that is
also called the align alignment of the
responses the uh LLM generated responses
okay now let's see couple of examples so
I here I kept the example of the
pre-trading what is the objective of it
what kind of data we are using then I
kept for the normal finetuning that I
kept the for the instruction finetuning
for the RLHF and all and what kind of
technique you can use and here I kept
one more like example okay which is LLM
w lm wise llama GPT mist okay the name
of the llms basically so uh first what
was the name when when it was
unsupervised train then while the
supervised fine tuning then after the
preference based alignment and all right
so all the example I kept now let's uh
take a look onto this so first let's
start with the pre-training which is
also called self-supervised learning
Now guys, this pre-training is also
called the unsupervised pre-training or
self-s supervised learning. Now why it
is called the unsupervised pre-training?
Because uh in the data actually we don't
have a label. Uh and why it is called
the self-supervised learning because the
label is being created automatically.
Okay, the next word itself will be the
label. Okay, in the data. So guys, what
is the source of the data? Whenever we
are doing this unsupervised pre-training
now see uh whatever model you are seeing
whether it's a llama mist GPT deepseek
cloud based model like sonet opus okay
gemini so this all the model initially
have been trained on a very huge amount
of data okay now this data could be from
the documentation it could be from the
research paper uh this could be the uh
uh common crawl data from the internet
okay Wikipedia encyclopedia data books
okay like different different books not
even in English even uh in the different
different other languages right now guys
uh because of that right so see
initially actually we have to train our
model on a very huge amount of data as I
given you the example of the different
different model they all did this kind
of training now this training itself is
a bottleneck bottleneck means because
every country every company not having
this much of data data first of all
right now for training okay for training
our model if I'm saying model means
transformer based model for training the
transformer based model on a very huge
amount of data we required a very huge
infrastructure huge GPU infrastructure
huge memory processor right so that is
very money consuming and the time
consuming thing okay every country every
company cannot afford it that's why many
of the company companies are not able to
train their own specific large language
model. You can see grog again it's from
the USA again meta again from the USA.
Deepseek from the China right 90% model
from the US itself and it is being
trained by those company which is
already having the access of the entire
internet data right so this stage is a
initial stage now why this stage is
required because using this unsupervised
speed training or self-supervised
learning we can teach our model general
knowledge we can teach our model how it
can understand the language Okay, the
grammar of that language. So to develop
the learning of the model, okay, to
develop the core intelligence of the
model, this particular stage is
required. Now what is the objective? We
are talking about the technical
objective. So the technical objective is
next token prediction. This is called
the language modeling. Okay, we are
doing it on a huge amount of data on a
large scale of data. Because of this,
this language modeling is called the
large language modeling. This LLM word
actually it came from here itself.
Getting my point guys? Right now guys uh
here what you will get after this
particular training what you will get
you will get a base model actually right
for example llama base mist base GPD
base deep sea jimny right now if you
want to if if you want a uh like the a
model which can do the conversation like
a human. So again you will have to do
the finetuning the instruction
finetuning which is the next step that
comes under SFT. Okay. If you want to
make your model chat enabled, right? So
for that you will have you'll have to do
the instructional instruction finetuning
right and if you want to align your
model to the human based on the human
feedback then you will have to do the
then you will have to follow the third
step which is called the DPO. Okay,
direct preference optimization. You will
have to uh align the responses of the uh
uh you will have to align the response
of the LLM based on the human
of the LLM based on the human preference.
getting my point right? So guys uh here
if you want to perform the pre-training
so we required this uh source we
required the data from the huge sources
okay uh in short I can say the data from
the internet itself what is the
objective of it to predict the next
token okay this called the language
modeling we are doing we are doing it on
a huge amount of data which is called a
large language modeling okay the NLM
word came from here itself now what is
the result of it the result basically
the you will get a base model okay for
example llama base, Mr. B, GPD mil, GPD
base, deep sake base, Gemini base and
all. I'll give you more example don't
worry even I can show you with the
hugging face itself. So if you will go
with a hugging face and if you will
check with this meta repository. So here
you will find out a different different
model. Now see this model this
particular model is a base model. Okay,
Llama 213b. Now on the other hand if you
will see this model okay llama 27B chat.
See this model is not a base model
because uh after performing the
pre-training again this model have been
fine- tuned for the chatting right now I
can show you the other model. So if you
will check with the llama repository
just go with the first page. Now here
check so metal llama 38 B instruct right
so this model is not a base model
because this model actually have been
pre-trained and then it has been trained
on some instruction right so this is
also not a base model now likewise you
can check the different model so which
is a base one which is not a base in the
name itself you will get it see this
model is a base model now why this is a
base model because see llama 3.18P it it
it has not been trained further for any
instruction for any chatting kind of a
stuff. Okay. So I hope you got the
meaning of the base model right now. Why
we are doing it? So that we can develop
the core understanding of the model in
terms of the language in terms of the
grammar. Okay, we can develop the uh
general knowledge of the model. But guys
after doing this pre-training is still
my model lacks to follow the instruction
to maintain the specific tone in
whatever tone basically we want to be
train our model to produce the structure
answer and all. Okay. So for that only
what we do we perform the supervised
finetuning. Now if we are doing
supervised finetuning guys so as I told
you we can divide into two part. The
first is called the normal finetuning
this one and the second is called the
instruction finetuning. Okay,
instruction finetuning. Now why when we
do the instruction finetuning? So
whenever we want to convert our model
into the assistant, okay, whenever we
want to convert our model our model into
the chatbot means uh it can do the chats
like a human. Okay, it can do the
conversation. In that case, we do the
instruction finetuning. Right? Now let's
say we got the we we have train our data
on a huge amount of data. We got a base
model, right? So what we do guys, we do
the non uh instruction finetuning which
is also called the normal finetuning,
right? And the second is the
instructional finetuning. Okay guys, if
we're talking about the chat GPT GPT
have skipped this particular stage, this
normal finetuning means domain specific
finetuning, domain adoption finetuning.
What they have done? They have trained
their model on a very huge amount of
data for developing a general knowledge
and for making it enable like a human
conversation. Okay, they did the
instruction finetuning. Now they have
done the instruction finetuning on what
uh they have done the instruction
finetuning. Okay, on the Reddit data on
the cur data, staggerflow data, GitHub
issues, right? Open forum, committee
forum, right? where we have like uh
question and answer right on top of that
data they have fine-tuned the model okay
they have fine- tuned the model now guys
when this normal finetuning means
non-instructional finetuning is required
I can give you the example of it so
let's understand it over here so let's
say you have trained one model
okay I can take example of the llama
let's say you have trained one model
llama model this model is a base model.
Okay, I think you got to know what is a
base model. Now guys, this particular
base model. Now guys, this particular model
you want to train for your own domain.
Let's say you are, this is a base model.
Okay. Now guys, this particular model
you want to train for your domain. Let's
say your domain is a farmer.
One pharma company,
right? That's a sun farmer want to train
their own model. Okay. So they are not
going to be trained it from a scratch.
Okay. This farmer company let's say sun
farmer they are not going to be trained
farmer they are not going to be trained not
going to be trained
from scratch.
Okay s c r a t c right? They're not
going to be train it from a scratch.
what they doing doing they're just going
to be take a base model okay let's say s
llama 13b okay they're talking this
particular model they are going to be
trained for the farmer domain so they
have a domain specific data
domain
specific data okay now on this domain
specific data again they will train
which model
which model dama
13p model.
Getting my point guys? So this
particular training see this domain
specific data let's say this is
available in PDF.
Now if we're talking about the
instruction finetuning
so in the instruction finetuning the
data will be available in a question and
answer format. So we would be having
question and answer or you can say input
and output format. input and output
format or you can say like in the uh
format or you can say like in the uh instruction
in instruction
in instruction and
response format. Okay, in any of these
format the data will be available but
here the data is available in PDF. Let's
say the data is available in txt file.
The data is available in any other file.
Okay, in any other file format. So what
we'll do? So here we are not doing
instruction fine-tuning. Instead of that
we are picking up this data this PDF
data, txt data or data in any other
format. This is a plain text.
Okay. Now from this data itself what
we'll do again like we'll uh we'll train
our base model. Okay. On top of which
data? On top of this plain data. Now how
the data is being prepared? I will show
you that. Okay. From this plane data I
will again what I will do I will train
my base model. And now this base model
right llama 13B model. This will be my
domain specific model.
domain specific model. Domain
Domain specific
specific model
domain specific model. Okay. Now if I
want to fine-tune this model further for
the conversation okay or for generating
a text the structure text and all then I
can do the instruction finetuning.
Okay. Now why we can do the instruction
finetuning? Why we are doing it? So that
we can generate the structure output.
Okay. So let's say we are asking some
question to this llama llama right? So
it needs to be generate the answer. But
here it know the domain specific
knowledge but still it is lacking to
generate the structure answer. Okay, it
is generating answer but we want to be
more refined. We want a specific answer
with respect to this specific question.
So what I'll do I will perform the
instruction fine-tuning where I would be
having the data in such a way. Okay. In
which way? in question and answer format
in input and output format in
instruction and the response format.
I'll show you the example with that your
understanding will be more clear. So
guys that's what I was saying if we
talking about the supervised fine-tuning
we can divide into the two part one see
we have a base model let's say this is
my base model. So we have a domain
specific data okay that is a plain text
in PDF TXT or any other file format we
can take that and again we can train our
model. Now this model is is have this
model have been trained on a
model have been trained on a noninstructional
noninstructional data.
Okay, which is a plain text or
something. Right now what is the aim?
What is the aim? Why we are doing it?
Why we are training this model over
here? So that we can we can basically
give the domain specific knowledge to my
model. Now further if I want to generate
a structure output then what I will do?
I will train my model on the question
and answer data. This particular data
for the domain itself for the domain
itself this particular data will have to
prepare by myself. Okay. For the domain
chat GPD took the Reddit data, CURA
data, open forum data and all. If we are
if we are if you are in the specific if
we are doing it for the specific
organization so this particular data
we'll have to create by ourself right
and then further what I will do after
the instruction finetuning I will do the
preference based
preference based preference
based tuning okay which is also called
DPO or RLHF okay human feedback right
human uh training retraining based on
the human feedback Okay, preference
based tuning or preference based
alignment anything you can say and DPO
is a technique of it so that my model
will be aligned properly in whatever way
the end user want the output I hope you
are getting the entire chronology now
okay so guys uh here you can see uh if
we're talking about the non I don't
worry I'll show the example and all if
we're talking about the
non normal finetuning okay this is for
what this for the domain adoption Right
now data set what? Data set could be the
plain text. Okay. It could be the
company document. Now use case making
LLM domain expert. Okay. In any sort of
a area like medical, legal, finance,
e-commerce, whatever. Now what is the
goal of it? To improve the model
understanding and knowledge with respect
to any domain. Okay. Or to adapt that
particular language. Now what is the
output style? Produce text continuously.
Not necessary capable for following an
instruction. Means if we are asking any
question for sure it's going to be
generated text but the text could would
be aligned with my question would would
be the structure one it might not be
because here again we are developing a
knowledge the domain specific knowledge
of the model okay meaning the model
learning is the aesthetical distribution
of the text not question answering
behavior. So again we are not going to
be train our model for such question
answer. We are going to be develop the
domain specific knowledge of the model.
Okay and I'll show you this thing
practically. So what is the example? So
example let's say this is a text. Okay
how the data set will look like. So I
kept like one paragraph over here. So
Sunonny Savvita here where AI meets
unstoppable passion. Okay this is be not
here. where AI meet unstoppable patient
turning code creativity and courage into
the legacy teaching thousand to uh to
master AI one video at a time not a not
just a creator mentor visionary and a
job maker don't chase opponent build
them right so this is the like a small
text which I written right now over here
you can see how the data will be created
right for the for this uh
non-instructional finetuning
non-instructional finetuning non
non instructional
fine
tuning. Okay. So let's suppose this
particular data you got from any PDF,
right? So let's suppose you got this
particular data from any PDF. Now how
the data will be created for the
non-instructional finetuning, right?
Noninstructional finetuning. Now see
Sunny would be there. So savvita would
be the output. Sunonny savvita will be
the uh will be the input. Now this
particular character will be the output.
You can clean the data. See later on I
clean the data. So that's why this
character is not there. Sunonny savvita
would be there. Then where would be the
output? Sunny savvita where will be the
input? AI will be the output. Sunny
savvita where will be the input? Meets
will be the output. Sunny savvita where
AI meet. So this is the output. Sunny
savvita where AI meets unstoppable. So
passion will be the output. Sunny
savvita where AI meets unable passion.
Right? So this turning will be the
output. Now guys here you can see we are
what how we are preparing a data. So we
are preparing the data in such a way so
that we can predict the next token. Okay
next token means we got a model. Okay
base model. Now let's say if I want to
be train this base model on our own data
on our own text data this text data in a
PDF. This text data belong to any
specific domain. Right? So what I'll do
I'll prepare my data in such a way in
this particular way. Now guys what is
this this data actually it is
representing to the self-supervised
training only self-supervised learning
only. Okay we have performed the
unsupervised pre-training. Let's say I
got one general knowledge based model.
Now if I want to be trained for my own
industry specific data I can follow this
step and this is called the
noninstructional finetuning. The data
could be available in a PDF. We can get
a text. We can again retrain the model
and we'll be getting a domain specific
model. Right? I hope this is clear. I'll
show you with the practical this entire
thing. Even the instruction finetuning
and the RLHF means the DPU technique.
Okay? On the same model. Same model
guys. Right now let's see the
instruction finetuning.
So guys uh in the instruction finetuning
right which is again part of the SFT
itself. So data set follow
data set follow instruction in the
response format. Okay. Uh don't worry
I'll show you that uh how it looks like
uh because I kept each and every type of
data right from the hugging phase
itself. I kept the several data uh so
non-instructional f fin fine-tuned data
then instruction fine-tune data set then
preference alignment tuning data set. So
this data set I just kept to show you
how the data could be look like. Okay,
the instruction finetune data and the
normal data and then the preference
preference alignment data. Now uh here
so the data set follow instruction and
the response format. Uh what is the use
case? The use case to build the chatbot
because the chatbot uh we required the
uh model which can do the human
conversation humanlike conversational.
Okay. So for building a chatbot or I can
say for building the conversational AI
we always require the instruction
finetuning on top of the LLM. So let's
say we have a base LLM.
Now this base LLM for for performing the
conversational for building a
conversational AI or to build a chatbot
what we'll do we'll do the instruction
finetuning. This is pretty much
important. Now in between
even though we are again training this
base model on some domain specific data
with some with some uh domain this
domain uh this uh base LLM on some
domain specific data with the non
instructional finetune okay with the
non-instructional finetune finetuning uh
data right but if I want to convert my
model into chatbot the conversational AI
into the QA system right uh the
definitely we require This instruction
fine deteriorate now goal to teach the
model to the human human based
instruction right human like
conversation uh now output style so
direct helpful and structure answer is
structure answer more reasoning based
answer chat GP is a best example of it
they did the uh instruction fine tuning
of the base model they didn't uh see
they did the uh like b they they did the
unsupervised pre-tuning on a very huge
amount of data they taught the model to
the general knowledge and and then they
perform the instruction finetuning but
this stage is for us for you and me for
a specific company guys okay if I want
to avoid this particular step okay if I
don't want to train my base LLM if I
want to pick my base LLM if I want to do
the domain specific tuning so this step
is for me and if I want to be convert my
model okay into the conversational model
then this particular stage is required
anyhow now what is the data example so
see this is the data example which I
mentioned so here will be the
instruction structionction example what
mitochondria does in one sentence. Now
see mitochondria generate energy for the
cell through the respiration. Okay. So
we ask the question in this spe for this
uh specific answer and it has generated
this specific answer. Right. If I don't
want to generate any extra thing any
other thing that's why this particular
fine-tuning is required right now
meaning the model learns produce direct
question answer. Okay. Uh and it learns
how to generate the structure answer
based on the given instruction based on
the given question. Now common data set.
So these are the common data set which
you can see over the hugging face
itself. I'll show you in some time. Now
how chat GPT have performed the
instruction finetuning on which data
they have done. So they have done on the
revit conversation on the cura on the
stack overflow uh conversation stack
exchange conversation right GitHub
issues discussion right open forum uh
and the community board like hugging
face kegel I'm just uh uh saying with
respect to the coding as of now but yeah
it could be any open forum committee
forum and all okay so like the uh in the
comment itself we are doing a discussion
with respect to any specific post right
so that uh data also could be possible
right so hugging sorry chat GPT the
openi picked this particular data for
the instruction finetuning of the chat
GPD model of the GPD model which have
been used under the chat GPD application
okay now guys uh what is a combo means
if we are going to be train our own
model so what could be the strategy the
strategy could be first we can uh do the
normal finetuning okay to adapt the
model on your specific domain and after
that what we can do. So first we can do
the non normal finetuning and after that
we can do the instructional finetuning.
Okay. And with this particular strategy
my model will become the beast means my
model can generate a output according to
our requirement. Okay. Now the last step
is called the alignment with the human
feedback. So for that uh so here you
will find out data. So in which way the
data will be available. So pair of
response racked by the human. Okay,
means human is ranking the response
whether whether it's good or not,
whether it's a positive or negative,
something like that. Now for that we
have RLHF technique, DPO technique, RL
Aif technique. But guys, this technique
is a very basic and useful. So we'll go
with this particular technique. But when
I will explain DPU in the detail,
definitely I'll give you the glimpse of
this technique as well. Okay, this uh
this technique RLHF and this RA RLif
reinforcement learning from the AI
feedback. I'll discuss about this as
well. Now what is the goal of it to goal
to make the model polite, safe, helpful
and aligned with the human value. Now
LLM has generated an answer that's fine.
But human is human is liking this answer
or not. Okay? Human is liking this
particular answer or not. We don't know
about it, right? So what we'll do? We'll
again perform the training. We'll again
perform the training using this DPO
technique. Again, it's a supervised
training only. And I will show you how
the data looks like. So I kept some of
example over here GPD4 pre-trained GPT
supervised finetuning okay with like
there's a instructional finetuning and
then RLHF gymning also SFT RHF and then
multimodel alignment okay deepseek also
they have trained in the same way okay
all the step they have followed now uh
chat GPD right uh for the GPT how they
have collected this uh human feedback
data so they have collected from the log
okay from the chat GP user log means
whatever answer is being generated
whether a user is giving thumbs up or
thumbs down. Okay. So that particular
log they were capturing and that was a
data right. So collected with a user
consent and anomalization. Okay. So
whatever user is giving the feedback
okay based on that that particular data
they have filtered. Okay. And again on
top of the data they have retrained the
model right. So likewise they have
likewise they have captured the data for
the chat GPT uh for building the chat
GPT. Okay. for training the GPT model in
the human feedback. Now this particular
example I kept for the uh GPD model
itself for the chat GPT but in our case
we'll have to collect our own data. We
are going to build a chatbot like this.
Okay. On our own LLM, right? So I hope
guys this thing is also clear. Now let's
see some family wise breakdown llama,
Jimny and all. And then basically I will
go with the different different data set
and first we'll start with the
non-instructional finetuning. Okay. And
in the next video I will show you the
instructional finetuning.
So here I kept the uh family wise
breakdown means uh I kept the different
different family of the model like
llama, GPT, mistral, deepseek and
gemini. So let's uh look into all the
three stage of the training with respect
to these model. So stage one uh let's
say llama pre-train on trillions of
token uh the data would be the common
crawl data books coding and all. Then in
the next stage we perform the SFT
supervised finetuning. So we have made
this llama to ched. Now if you want to
make it uh to the human uh we want to
align with the human responses right so
we did the third we have performed the
third stage okay uh then uh public wise
so meta release both base and the chat
variant right so you can choose base or
chat uh the chat model basically it's
aligned already okay means they have
performed the instruction fine tuning as
well as they have aligned with the human
feedback now if talking about the GPT so
GPT3 which was released in 2020 it is a
pre-trained model only then instruct GPT
they have released in 21 you can check
out with this particular model they have
performed the SFT means instructional
finetuning as well as the RLHF then in
uh 2022 and 23 they have released the GP
3.5 and 4 heavily aligned with RLHF and
safety filters okay and again it was the
instruction fine-tuned model then GP
model are closed source so you don't get
base over here means uh you cannot get
this particular model uh because it is
closed source they are just giving the
API directly use the model if you want
to fine-tune on your own data if you
want to perform the instruction finetune
that is possible okay I'll discuss that
now MR wise same thing so MR 7B is a
base model 7 this particular model was
released in 23 then uh x uh 8 x 7B model
this is a mixture of expert again it's a
base model which again released in 23
itself then instruction version of the
model this model was released you can
check out with the repository of the
mist then some model also with the RLHF
and DPO. Okay, you will get inside the
repository itself. Open weight release
means we can also use the base model as
well as the instruct model directly and
we can fine-tune for our own
requirement. Okay, Deepse seek again on
a same in a same way. So they have
released the base model pre-trained
model okay in all the variants then uh
they have released the deepc code model
okay which is uh trained on the code
data SF it was the SFP training uh maybe
it was the instruing
training then they have released the R1
okay this was again aligned with the
human feedback right now open bits is
available uh it is a China's big
open-source push uh for sure you can
download this model from the hugging
face itself Jimny again same Right? So
this was the family wise breakdown guys
and similar to that you'll get the cloud
based model right opus sonet and all and
uh yes they have also trained in the
same manner. So unsupervised
pre-training then domain specific
finetuning non-instructional then uh
specific finetuning instruction
finetuning and then RLHF okay these are
four stages let me revise all this thing
over here first is what? So first is the
unsupervised pre-teening okay
unsupervised pre-tuning UFT. The second
is SFT supervised finetuning again two
part of it non-instructional
finetuning data on D on this data and
then instructional fine-tuned data. Then
third is
reinforcement sorry
uh preference alignment preference based
uh preference alignment preference based learning
on human feedback okay on human
feedback. Now we're talking about the
GPD model the chat GPD product you are
seeing okay or any other uh product
which have been released by any other
company. So they have performed the
unsupervised pre-training then they have
performed the supervised finetuning
means in instruction fine-tuning and
then uh this preference based alignment.
Now if you are doing for our own company
our own company so we cannot
okay if we are doing for our own company
so we cannot train the model from
scratch it is not possible. So what
we'll do we'll pick the base model we
will train on we'll train it on our
non-instructional finetuned data if I
want a structure output in that case I
will go ahead with the instruction
finetuning okay first this then this
then this and then if I want to be
aligned with the human answers then I
will perform the uh preference based
alignment okay through the human
feedback okay so here I will go ahead
with the DPO technique right so this is
the entire summary of this theory now
we'll see practical guys.
Now for the practical guys, I created
Google Collab notebook and you can see
the title of the notebook non
instruction pre-train LLM fine-tuning on
a domain specific data set. Okay. So
let's connect to the GPU. Uh now here
you need to change uh to the runtime. If
you haven't changed then change to the
GPU and then save it. And you can
purchase the Google Collab Pro if you
want the uh if you want some premium
GPUs like Alo GPUs. Okay. Uh you can
work with it after purchasing the Google
Collab Pro. Uh I don't have Google
Collab Pro right now. So that's why I'm
working with the free uh GPU itself. So
I written the title, I connected with my
GPU. Now let's start with the practical.
Now first of all guys, let me show you
the data set. So here is my data set. So
this data set is belong to the farmer
domain. Okay, this is the dummy data
set. Uh here I just have one page
because I just have to show you how to
fine-tune our model. How to fine-tune
our pre-trained model on on top of the
domain specific data set which can
reside in any PDF any document. Okay. So
this is the plain text only. You you can
see uh here we don't have any sort of a
uh we don't have any sort of a CSV. We
don't have any sort of a column right
now. Okay. We just have plain text. So
we'll transform this particular data
okay into the appropriate format and
then we'll pass it to the model. So this
our main name. Now uh here for
performing the practical guys I'm going
to use the uh hugging face. So let me uh
show you the library what library we're
going to use uh for training. So uh here
guys we are going to use transformeral
library. Uh we're going to use the data
set library. Okay. Uh then accelerate.
Accelerate we are not using because uh
this library is for the multi-GPU setup.
uh but yeah we'll install it because uh
some dependency uh onto this accelerate
then we'll use the bits and byes okay
this is for the loading the quantise
model then p library it is for it is for
the lora configuration right so lora
perfect steering adapter everything we
can do using this pft library now
you can see the further detail of this
library so who has created this library
hugging face only created this
transformer library same data set
library been created by the hugging
face. Then X-ray library also created by
the hugging face. This bits and byes
library is created by this specific guy
Tim Dmers. Uh so this library is
available under the hugging face. Okay.
This bits and byes uh you can directly
uh install it from the hugging face
itself. Now P library it is also created
by the hugging face. Okay. Uh now the
key research paper GitHub and all you
can search because it is a image or else
what I will do I will give you in the
description you can take from there
itself. Now uh after that guys what we
have to do we have to install all this
library. So for installing this library
this is the command pip install new pept
bits and bytes transformer and
accelerate. Okay now guys after
installing it I required one more
library. So the next library is the TRL.
Okay this TRL uh the full form of this
TRL is transformer reinforcement
learning. So for performing the
supervised finetuning we required this
TRL library. So let me install this
also. Now we required uh one more
library. So we required this pi mu PDF
because my data is residing into the
PDF. Okay. So we have to load the entire
data from the PDF and for that we
required this pi mu PDF library. Okay.
So I hope till here everything is fine
everything is clear. Now first of all
guys let me show you how the different
different data looks like. Okay. So what
I'm doing guys I am going to open sorry
I'm going to copy and paste the
different different uh data set link
over here. So first uh let me show you
this non-instruction fine-tuning data
set. So this data set actually it's a
pre-built data set means already you
will find out this data set over the
hugging phase. Uh so you can uh look
into the these data set and if you want
to use this particular data set just for
the practice okay or just to train any
model you can directly take it from
there. Okay, this is a pre-built data
set which you will get from the hugging
face itself. But guys, in our case, we
are going to fine-tune on our own custom
data. So this data set is not available
over the hugging face means this is the
own we are we are assuming that this is
our own enterprise data. This is our own
company specific data. This is our own
customized data. Okay. So we are going
to be loaded from the period but uh
already over the hugging phase you will
find out so many data set
non-instructional finetuning data set
instruction finetuning data set and even
the DPO data set. So what I'm doing I'm
keeping some name over here. So here see
guys these names are bel these names
belong to the non-instruction finetuning
data set. Okay. Now likewise I can give
you the instruction finetuning data set
so that later on you can go through with
it. So here is a link of it. Okay.
directly I kept the link of the
instruction finetuning I kept it in my
notebook that's why I'm directly copy
and pasting from there only then I have
one more type of data set uh that is
preference alignment data set okay so
let me show you that particular data set
also so here is the preference alignment
uh data set so uh if I'm going to show
you see let me show you the data set how
it looks like if I'm going to show you
this uh fine web data set okay I already
open this link see this is the data set
uh it is available under this hug ing
phase FW repository. The data set name
is fine web. Okay. So see uh inside this
particular data you will find out this
text column. So entire data has been
divided into the multiple rows. Okay.
And it is available under this text
means the entire plain text. Okay. It
has been divided like this. So we have
to prepare our own data. Okay. This
customized um we have to prepare our own
data. This PDF data into the same
format. So let me show you the PDF data.
This is the PDF data. It is a plain text
right? So this was also the plain text
but this particular data have been
prepared like this to feed to the model.
Okay. So we have to prepare our data PDF
data into the same form. Now let me show
you the another data. So this is one
more data the pile pub abstract refined
by data juicer. So guys this is uh this
data set actually belong to the pharma
research paper. Okay. Uh now here inside
this text column you will find out the
abstract of all the research paper.
right inside this particular column. Now
this particular data is refined by this
library data juicer library. Here you
can see this uh data juicer library
which is used to pre-process the data.
Okay, that's why the name is like this.
Uh the name is the pile pubid abstract
refined by data juicer. Now see inside
this uh table you will find out this
text column and under this text column
you will find out the entire data into
the multiple rows. Now the other column
actually belong to the metadata. So you
can ignore this particular column. Now
while we are creating the data uh at
that time you will get this particular
column but yeah you can create this
particular column but again there is no
use of it. Uh the main use of this text
column only. Now uh let me show you one
more data. See here is one more data uh
sky line. So inside this repository sky
line 007 under this repository you will
get this open web text data. So this
data set see here you can read out the
definition of this data. This is the
open source replication of the web text
data set from the openi means whatever
data set have been used by the openi it
is a replication of that. Now this data
set is very huge. Okay. This data set
was used to train the GP2 model. Now
here you can see the size of the data
set. So to total size of the data set is
set. So to total size of the data set is 55.21
GB. It's very huge data set guys. Now
here you can see the example. So under
this text column only the data will be
residing into the multiple chunks into
the multiple rows. Okay. So there could
be a tableabler format or you can look
into the mean the data they can show you
into the JSON format. Okay. But the
column name would be the same text only.
Okay. So we have to prepare our own data
in a same format. Now let me show you
the uh let me show you the other data
set. So here uh I can open that uh data
set. Where is the file? So here is a
file guys. So what I'm doing guys I'm
going to be open the other data set. Let
me close it. Step by step I can open.
Okay. So guys uh here uh in the
instruction finetuning data set. I'm
going to be open this particular data.
Uh the data set name is what? Mental
health counseling conversation. Now this
is a instruction finetuning data set.
Now here you will find out the context.
Okay. And the responses. So this is the
question right and here is the response
of it. So the data you will find out in
the in the form of instruction
instruction and the responses. Okay. So
you can think in such a way this is the
input. This is the output. Okay. This is
the question. This is the answer. This
is the instruction. This is the
response. This is the context. This is
the response. Anything you can say. Now
I can show you the other data. See this
is the next data. Alpaka
uh this clean data. Now inside this data
set also you will find out this output
instruction. Okay. Output instruction.
Input column is empty over here. Okay.
Now you can look into the other data
set. See open o rca data. So inside this
particular data also what you will get
guys? You will get this system prompt
question and the response. Right. So in
every instruction finetuning in every
instruction data set okay in every
instruction finetuning data set you will
get the question as well as the response
of it. Now I can show you the preference
alignment data okay so this particular
data was created by the anthropic public
by the anthropics just for the practice
or like how the uh DPO how the rein this
preference alignment data looks like.
Now inside this particular data you will
find a two column. First is a chosen. So
whatever uh whatever like answer is
chosen by the AI and the rejected. Okay.
Whatever answer is rejected by the AI.
Now I can show you from the different
repository. See here is from the
different repository. So you can uh look
you can check this ultra feedback bind
rice preference clean. So inside this
particular repository also you will get
two column. One is prompt and second is
chosen. Okay. And then another column uh
you will get rejected. Okay. So chosen
and rejected this will be the common
column in every preference alignment
tuning data set. So uh you can look into
the other data set. Let me show you the
last one also. So here is the last one.
So guys inside this particular data also
you will find out the prompt uh
initially region step chosen and then
there will be one more column rejected
column. Okay. So guys in every data set
right which is belong to the preference
alignment you will get the chosen as
well as the rejected. Now I hope you got
to know how the non-instructional data,
instruction data and the preference
alignment data looks like. Now this data
set is already given by the this data
set is already given by the hugging
face. Okay. So this is the pre-built
data set, right? But guys, we are not
just doing the practice using this
pre-built data set. Uh many YouTubers on
many YouTube video you will find out
this kind of tutorial. So we are doing
on our own custom data set. So in this
particular video I will show you with
the non-instructional data. Okay. So
this non-instructional data this text
column we are going to be create from
our PDF data itself. This is our PDF
data. Okay. Now in the next video I will
show you the instruction finetuning on
the same data means we'll create a
instruction uh data set from from the
same domain. Okay. The from the same
kind of context to make our model more
better and then the same model will
train on the this preference alignment
data. Okay. In the next video I will
create one preference alignment data.
Okay. Okay. And on top of that
particular uh data, we'll train the same
model. So we took the uh we we will we
are going to take the base model. So
first we'll train on this
non-instructional finetuning data set
data set which is our PDF. So here you
can see uh this is my PDF. Okay. Now
after that we'll train on this
instructional finetuning data set in the
next video and then in the next next
video we'll look into this preference
alignment data. I hope now everything is
clear. So let's start with the
practical. So first of all guys what
we'll have to do we'll have to load our
data set. Now before loading our own
data set the custom data set let me show
you uh let me show you the inbuilt data
set. Okay. So how the inbuilt data set
look like. So first let's load the
pre-built data set. Now guys I already
written uh the code in the notepad. So I
can directly copy and paste from there
because I this code is prepared by me
itself. So first of all we'll have to
import the data set. Okay. So from the
data set guys I'm going to import two
thing. So let me import two thing over
here. The first thing is a load data set
and the second is the data set itself.
Just a second let me check what is
Just a second let me check what is happening.
Okay. So guys here I loaded this uh here
I imported this data set as well as this
load data set. Now uh what we are doing
guys? So here you can see we are going
to load this tiny story from this
particular repository. Okay, this this
data set actually
again it is a uh non-instructional
tuning data set. Okay, this one. So uh I
can show you also. So I can just copy
this particular name and I can paste it
over here. Now here see you will get the
very first link, right? So just go
through with this link and see here is a
text column only the text column. Okay.
So this data set again have been divided
into the multiple rows. Now what I'm
doing this is a pre-built data set okay
from the hugging face I just want to
show you the how the data set look like.
So if I'm going to print this data set
so what I'm doing I'm going to be right
over here print data set. Now see how
the data set look like. So let me copy
this data set and this variable I'm
pasting over here. Okay. So this is my
variable. Now see uh so okay first of
all we'll have to load it. This loading
might take time. Uh okay it's loading
might take time. Uh okay it's loading fine.
So see the data is loaded.
Okay. So guys uh the data is loaded
successfully. Now after that what I'll
do? I'll print the data set. See here is
a variable. Uh here is a data set
variable. Now inside this data set you
will get the feature. Only one feature I
have and see the number of rows. So how
many rows we have? we have uh two lakh
sorry 21 lakh 19,719
rows means almost 2 million rows. Okay.
So guys uh but we are not going to use
this data set instead of that we'll
create our own data set. So let me show
you couple of rows from here. So let's
check with the first row. So here you
will get the first row. See this is the
first row. Now let me show you the
second row. Okay. So here is my second
row. This one. Now if you want to check
the last row of this data set. So simply
you can uh write over here minus one.
See here is the last row. Okay. So guys
uh this data set was a plain text and
now this data set was divided into the
multiple chunks. Okay. Multiple text
chunk and under this text column you can
see the data okay number of rows. Now we
have to convert okay our PDF into the
same format. If I want to train my if I
want to train the model on top of the
PDF. Okay. So, we'll have to convert
into the same format. So, how we can do
it? So, first of all guys, we'll have to
load the data. So, for loading the data,
uh, let me write a heading. Uh, I will
share this notebook. You can uh
completely follow this notebook. Okay,
I'll give the link in the description
itself. So, here is what here is the uh
here is the basically custom data. Okay,
so you can see the heating heading. Now,
what I'm doing guys, I'm going to be
import library. This is from the pi mu
pdf itself means uh in the back end it
is using the pi mu pdf. This fits
library we use to load the pdf. Now uh
here I'm going to here I've created one
function. My function name is what?
Extract text from the pdf. Okay. So I
will give the pdf path. I will uh take
the text. I will load the text inside
this particular uh uh list. Okay. I will
open the path. I will iterate on top of
the pages. Okay. I will collect the data
from here and I will append inside the
list. Simple logic. Okay. and then I
will return this particular list after
completing the loading. So let me give
the path. So here is my path content
matt form PDF. Now once I'll run it
guys. So what I'll be getting? I'll be
getting a data. So here it is saying the
data is not available because first
we'll have to upload the data. If you're
not going to upload the data guys in
that case you will get a same error. So
please make sure that you are going to
upload the data over here or else you
can read it from the GitHub, you can
read it from the uh drive anywhere you
can keep this data and you can read it.
Now what I'm doing guys? So here uh
let's try to read the return now. So see
I got the PDF text. I can show you how
the text looks like. So this is the text
guys. The complete text which I'm able
to get from the PDF itself. Now after
that what I'll do I will uh divide the
text into the chunks. Now this uh divide
the ch text into the chunk. It is a
hyperparameter. Okay. So this logic
basically what we can do this logic we
can decide how we are going to be divide
our data into the chunks. Okay. And what
would be the size of the chunk? Right?
Now I can give you a couple of example.
So I kept for all of you. Now first of
all guys see whenever we are going to
see whenever we are going to load the
data. Okay. So this is the complete step
which we need to follow. Uh as of now my
data was not too much but if we are
going to train our model from scratch.
Okay. Or if we are going to do the
non-instructional finetuning so you need
to follow the same step. So first you
need to collect the data which we have
already done. So see this is my data.
Now after collecting a data guys what we
have to do we have to cleaning the
cleaning and filtering the data. Then we
have to divide the data into this
chunking. Okay multiple chunks because
we cannot give this entire data at the
single go right to train my model. Uh
then uh tokenization means we have to
convert our data into the specific
numerical ID. Okay. uh after the
chunking. So to every token into the
given chunk one id one numerical ID will
be assigned and then we are going to
perform the training which is next token
prediction. Right? So this entire step
we have to follow. Now guys here I kept
one more thing one more table. So this
table could be very much important. So
just try to read this particular table
carefully. So uh here I given the model
name max to context window approx how
many words could be there and the
command. Right? So GPD1 model so it was
able to handle 512 token and there was
approach 350 W. Now GPD2 1,000 token
okay around 750 W. GPD3 2,000 token 1.5k
W around uh GPD 3.5 409K token around 3K
W and if you're talking about GPD 4 so
it is uh follow it is able to handle up
to 1 lakh 28,000 token around 1 lakh
watts. Okay. Now over here guys you can
see so whenever we are going to chunk
the data okay so we have to keep
something in our mind right so our model
right how much uh basically token can
handle and whenever we are going to be
divide the data into the chunks okay so
we can follow some regax pattern also
means we can divide our data into the
paragraph we can divide our data into
the segment okay or a semantic chunk and
all and then uh basically we can uh or
or else basically we can go ahead with
the token length also. So let's say if
we are going to be train GB4 kind of
model. So let's say uh we are going to
be load the data the speed of data.
Okay. So we can give the bigger bigger
chunk to the GP4 model to retrain it to
the finetuning it. Okay. And similar
similar at the time of the unsupervised
tuning as well. Okay means the first
step the initial stage. Okay. Now here
guys you can see so this chunking we can
do based on what based on this
particular pattern. See uh here I
written based on the paragraph semantic
chunking right we can write some reg x
rule and all and then we can or else we
can go ahead with the token length means
how many tokens we can be in the single
chunk according to that also we can
define the chunk or else we can take the
both strategy okay so I written a
function over here now see the function
so split paragraph so first we'll take
the pages okay this data now we are
going to be split based on the line okay
uh based on the new new long line means
the double line here you can see in the
PDF PF itself. Uh so if you will look
into the PDF so where it went here. So
here you can see between this line and
this line we have major gap right. So we
are going to be divide our uh data into
this based on this major line. Okay. So
this is a rag X pattern. You can write
any reg X pattern. You can read out the
CH GP GPT model research paper any other
research paper right? How they have done
the unsupervised pre-teening how they
have divided a data into the chunks
entire text and all right? So it will
also help you okay but this is also a
generic practice. Then what I'm doing
I'm iterating on top of the chunk and if
I'm saying over here if there is a 30
character more than 30 character then
then only I'm going to be append the
chunk into this particular list. Okay so
whatever par whatever like uh whatever
pages we have on we are iterating on top
of the data okay and on the entire list
then we are chunking based on this
strategy. If inside this chunk we have
more than 30 character. More than 30
character means what? 10 to 12 token.
Okay. Or 8 to 9 token. So more than 30
character only then only we are going to
append inside this particular paragraph.
Okay. So if I will run it guys now here
you will see we are going to be split
our data. So here uh inside this
particular variable I'll get my data
split data. Now see so uh see what I
have. I have the uh first chunk then
second chunk. Okay. Then third chunk uh
then then here you can see the fourth
chunk. But guys, the data should not be
like this. The data should be available
into this particular form. Okay, we
should have this uh okay, we should have
this text column and under this text
column, the chunk should be present. So
what I'll do now, I will map my data,
okay, to the text column. Okay, now here
what I'm doing, I'm iterating on top of
the chunk and then I'm assigning it to
this text column. So uh now how my data
look like. So if I'll show you the data.
So here see my data guys, we have this
text. Okay. Now with every text one
chunk is associated chunk text. Chunk
text. Okay. Now what I'll do I will
convert this particular data into the
hugging face compatible data. So for
that I have a data set data set library.
Okay. Which I already imported. Now from
here I will call this from list. Okay.
From list. Now from this list itself. So
here you can see this is a list only.
Now right. So I will pass this data to
the list. Okay. And now what I'll do
I'll keep it inside the variable. Let's
say my variable name is data set. Okay.
Now see my hugging face compatible data
is ready. So if I will show you this
data set. So how the data set look like?
See feature text. Okay. Under this text
we have a multiple chunks. Okay. And
here number of rows is four. So if you
will look into the pre-built data guys
uh this was my pre-built data. Uh if you
will look into my pre-built data. So
this was a pre-built data which I loaded
from the hugging page. In a same way we
are able to convert our data. See here
is my data. So now you can check the
first row, second row, whatever row you
can check. So let's say if I'm going to
be check the first row. Okay, I will
simply put the zero. So uh here you will
be able to get the first row. Likewise
you can get the second row. Okay, so in
total we have fourth row. So guys uh in
whatever way I was having my pre data,
the data was already available over the
arguing phase. Now I'm able to convert
my data set into the same format. Okay,
my custom data set. So this all the
technique all the pre-processing step
you will have to follow with respect to
your plain text. Now coming to the next
part. So the next thing is basically we
have to select the model. So first of
all let me create the multiple cells.
Okay. Now here we'll have to select the
model. So let me make a heading. So the
heading is let's select the model. So
guys model wise what I'm doing I'm going
to be select very tiny model because I
cannot bear the expensive the large
model inside with this particular GPU
with this particular memory we required
more BAM and all. So uh if you have
Google crop Google collab pro access or
you have more BRAM then you can try out
with this particular model. I'm using
this model tiny from the tiny llama
repository. So tiny llama 1 1.1b
intermediate step 1431k 3t. Okay. Now
what does it mean? What is the meaning
of uh this uh line? So I I I written a
meaning of this line over here. See, so
the checkpoint is from the tiny llama
model. Okay. Which train up to 1.54
million step over 300 sorry 3 million to
3 trillion tokens capture midway before
the final converge. So guys this
particular model is a tiny llama model.
Uh this model trained till this
particular step. Okay around 14 lakh
step. Okay. on top of this much of
token. So I'm using this model to train
uh I I'm using this this as a base
model. This is my base model guys. Okay,
this model is not being trained on any
instruction data or not on any domain
specific data. This is my base model.
Simple pre-trained model. Okay, so I'm
going to use this particular model to
perform the domain specific fine-tuning
on top of my PDF data. Right, I already
prepared a data. Now what I'll do guys,
I will basically perform the finetuning.
So first of all guys what I'll do I will
load the uh I will load this specific
library like auto tokenizer autocausal
lm trainer training argument and data
collector for language modeling. I think
this will not be required or training
till training argument will be required.
So let me run it and I'm going to load
the library. Now here what I'll do guys
I will load the tokenizer. Okay I will
tokenize my data because I already
performed the chunking. Now I will
perform the tokenization using this
particular tokenizer. Okay. So I'm
loading a tokenizer. Now after that guys
I have to execute one more line of code.
So if padding is none then in that case
I'm going to be assigned this end end of
the token to the padding right now why
it is required let me give you the
reason of uh that as well. So here I
kept one image with that you can easily
understand. So guys uh what is a pad
token? So pad token we use to make all
sequence in a batch to the same length.
So let's say input in input world we
have two token hello world right in
input three input two we have three
token uh good morning everyone uh
technically there is a three token hello
world this full stop then good morning
everyone full stop now here you can see
the size of the token size of the input
one and input two is different so if I
want to make it same so here what I'll
do I will do the padding okay now how I
am going to do the padding so at the end
okay at the end of this particular see
here the length of this particular uh uh
input is three sorry four okay 1 2 3 4
now what I'll do so here at the end of
the sentence hello world okay after this
particular word I will add one uh one
more token okay that's going to be US
end of the token okay this e US so if
I'm going to be append the US token now
how my sentence will look like hello
world us okay so the length of this
input one and input two is going to be
same so that's a simple use of this line
so let me run it and here we are able to
append this uh end of the token okay now
After that what I'll do guys? So after
that guys we are going to be pre-process
the data. Now the pre-process step is
pretty simple. So here we are passing
example means every text chunk. Now
after taking every text chunk see we are
truncating okay we are padding and we
are like defining the max length. So
what is the meaning of this particular
parameter? I'll tell you now here we we
have one very important line. So to
token okay to the label actually we are
going to be assigned this input ID.
Okay. And then we are going to return
the token. So let me execute it and let
me explain the meaning of this each and
every line because it is very much
important. So here what I'm doing guys
I'm going to be uh uh show I'm going to
be like add some example and all and
with this particular example we'll be
able to understand now see so whenever
we are passing the text so let's assume
this is my text okay metformin improves
insulin sensitivity in the liver so what
will happen so this tokenizer token okay
it is going to be take this particular
text now truncation true what it will do
so if the text is longer than five 12
tokens is going to be cut off that
padding true means if the text is
shorter than 5 12 token it's going to be
pad okay uh and the fixed length of this
of this particular sentence of this like
whenever we are doing the tokenization
it will be 512 okay if it's going to be
less and more to this 512 then we are
either we are going to be truncate or we
are going to be perform the petting so
after processing it I will be getting
this particular input so input I will be
getting this particular output where I
will be having two column input ids okay
which is going to be assigned to every
uh token and then attention Attention
mask. Attention mask is saying which
token is important for me to the
attention layer. Then label guys. So
token labels token input id dotcopy. Now
why we are doing it? So this is a key
step for the causal unsupervised
language modeling means what is our aim?
The our aim the model should try to
predict the next token in the same
sequence. Okay. I shown you how the data
is being prepared for this
non-instructional finetuning. Okay. For
this plain text uh for this particular
plain text. Okay. So we take we took
this plain text we convert into the text
okay multiple rows we did the chunking
because of the model right because we
cannot put uh the entire data in a
single go to the any model okay and then
we have to predict the next word okay in
the non-instructional finetuning we are
doing this selfs supervised finetuning
self-supervised tuning itself right so
what we have to do we have to predict
the next token and for that what we have
to do we have to prepare a data in such
a way so here you can see the sentence
what is my sentence is metaphorine
improve insulin sensitivity in the
liver. Now see over here this is my
input metapformine improve insulin. Now
what is the target level? Improve
insulin sensitivity. So okay so
metapformin improve insulin. So here
what is the next word of it? So
metapformin improve insulin improve
insulin sensitivity. Okay. So the
sensitivity will be picked as the next
word. So this particular line with this
particular line we are going to be
prepared this kind of data. Okay. Now
whenever we are passing uh whenever we
are getting final result so we'll be
getting the input ID attention mask as
well as the labels right. So let me
execute it and let me show you how the
data looks like. So for executing we'll
have to map the data. So here what I'm
doing guys I'm going to be map the data.
So I have a data set I'm calling map
tokenization function is there. Batch to
means we can pass the data into the
batch. We have so many data okay so many
rows and here remove column text means
in the final output we just want this
three thing input ID attention mask and
label. don't want this text. Okay. So,
I'm going to remove it. Now, here I will
be getting my tokenized data. If you
want to check it, you can simply check
it. See here is what here is my
tokenized data. Input ids, attention
mask and label. Now, here is a number of
row. Number of row is four. Now, what
I'll do guys, I will load my model. So,
here you can see I'm going to be load my
model. So, model loading might take some
time because the model size is around 4
GB. Okay. So, in your uh it depends on
your internet speed. Uh in my case, it
might take like 4 to 5 minute. So let it
load guys.
So guys uh my model is loaded. It took
around 4 to 5 minute. So as I told you
it depends on your internet speed also.
Uh now after that what I'll do guys I
will define my training argument. Okay.
So uh here uh inside the training
argument uh so guys see we have so many
training argument inside this class. uh
if you will see the list you will get
the hundreds of argument. So how you can
get the detail of it? So for that uh you
can simply call this uh help training
argument. Okay. So you already loaded
this class from the transformer.
You already imported this class from the
transformer. Now simply pass it to the
help method. Okay. Now once you will run
it, see here you will get the detail of
each and every parameter whatever is
there. Now uh I mention uh the required
parameter only. So I kept the meaning of
this particular parameter. Let me
mention it over here. So uh output
directory means where we are going to
save the model. Uh override output
directory means we are going to override
the previous model. If we are saving the
new model, it will override to the
previous model. Number of training
epochs, how many epochs we are uh
running for the training the model. Per
device trained size means uh in one
single go how many batch size we are
passing. Save a step at which step we
are saving the checkpoint. Save total
limit. Okay. So uh keep how means uh how
many checkpoints you want to be keep on
your disk. Uh let's say you you have
five five checkpoints. So you will keep
only four and five checkpoint if you are
writing two. Okay. The latest two
checkpoint you will keep on your uh
disk. Then logging step at which step
you are going to be log. Okay. Uh
learning rate means it depend it it
belong to the optimizer. So uh if we
have very huge learning rate my
basically graph will go here and there.
If we have like a small learning rate
then my graph will go smoother. So guys
uh uh if you know the basics of the deep
learning then I think you can understand
the meaning of this learning rate. And
now uh FP16 for the precision right in
which precision basically we are going
to be load the model. Report tone means
we are not going to be log uh our uh
data anywhere okay on any uh basically
tensor board or any bit and bias uh like
dashboard right or anywhere. So we are
just like keeping none. If you want to
keep like we can uh remove this none and
we can keep our matrixes log and all on
some different platform. Okay. By
default you will get the bait and bias W
andB platform. Right? So this is the
meaning of this parameter. I think you
got to know. Let me run it. So my model
is will be available inside this
particular directory. Now after that
guys what I'll do uh so you can check
with this helper method. Now I'm going
to be define my trainer. So after
defining a trainer okay so see the
trainer might take some time. So trainer
is taking three things. One is model.
Second is data. Okay. This tokenized
data and the third is a training
argument. That's it guys. Now after
training uh after defining a trainer I
will just call the trainer train method
on top of it. So trainer is a class. We
are going to initialize this particular
class and then we are calling the train
method. So once we'll call the train
method. Now guys see what we'll get. Can
you can anyone guess what I will get? So
you can pause the video and you can give
me the answer in the chat uh if you're
watching till here. So if I'm going to
be run it guys see here I will be
getting out of memory error. Now why I'm
getting this out of memory error because
guys uh you have you haven't focused
because we are training the entire
model. We are retraining the entire
model over here. If you will check see
we are loading the model. We are not
going to be select any uh we are not
going to be select any uh basically last
row okay or the initial row. We are not
going to do any lora and qora. We are
simply retraining the weight of the
entire model. and my machine is not
capable to do that thing right now and
because of that I'm getting the I'm
getting this out of memory error. So
what is the solution of it? So the
solution of it is LoRa. Okay, parameter
efficient fine-tuning. Now before the
Lora guys, let me show you the other
method also. So here I written some sort
of a description. So let me keep the
description over here. Okay. So what is
the description guys? So here we have we
are not specifying anything means this
is the full finetuning. Uh now we have
two two method for the partial
finetuning. The first freeze some layer
and fine-tune unfreeze layer which is a
old CNN method or B style method. Right?
The second is Lora append some external
weight to the already trained
pre-trained p. So guys I will show you
this both method method. Okay I will
more focus on the lora. I'm not going to
explain you this free some layer and
all. I will give you the code. I'll keep
it over here but I'm not going to
explain because I already explained in
my previous video. So if you will go and
check right. So let me show you in which
all video I have shown you. If you will
go and check with the playlist. So uh
okay this is running. So if you will go
and check with my playlist. So just
check out with this third video. Third
video and the ninth video. Okay. In this
both video I discuss about this
particular technique and even I shown
you the practical also. Now guys uh come
back uh come back to this uh like
solution. Now here what I'm doing I'm
going to be like uh write a code. Okay.
First I'm giving the code for this
particular method for freezing the
layer. You can try out from your end.
Okay, or else you can watch out those
particular video. But this is not a
appropriate method. There is some pros
and cons. Maybe in the later video we'll
discuss otherwise this video will be
very longer. Now here is the code guys.
So let's uh look into the code what we
are doing over here. So first we are
loading a model. Okay. Then we are
freezing some layer. Then we are
unfreezing the last four layer. Okay.
And then we are loading the data set.
Then we are like defining the training
argument. And then we are training the
model. Simple guys. Okay. That's it.
nothing else. So you can look into this
particular method and you can run it.
But this is not an efficient one with
respect to the larger LM. We'll discuss
theoretically later on why it is not. Uh
I'll show you the mathematic mathematics
of the lora dpo everything guys. Don't
worry right in the upcoming session. Now
what I'm doing guys? So here we are
going to perform the lora based
technique. So how to do the lora based
technique? Let's come to that.
Now before running the glora based
technique I will run the uh uh this uh
garbage collector. Okay. So whatever
like caching memory and all will be
there unnecessary memory it's going to
be removed that now again what I'm doing
guys I'm going to be update the library
because before running the lora lora
configuration we'll have to update the
libraries. Okay. Uh because initially we
haven't loaded we haven't installed the
sp library right bits and byes we also
required the upgraded version
transformer and the xrator else also. So
let me run it. Let me execute it. Now
after that what I'll do guys? I will
import uh this particular statement. But
before that guys what you can do you can
simply uh restart the session. Okay
because restart the session uh basically
will load the latest version. Okay
whatever version we required. Now after
that what I'll do I will import this
packages all the packages autoto
tokenizer coser lm training argument
trainer then lora config get p model
task type from the pft and then from the
data set we are going to load the load
data set okay now after that guys what
I'll do I'll take a same model which
I'll taking which I was taking initially
now uh here I will load the or tokenizer
in a same way okay then I'm going to be
assigned this US token at the end of the
as a pad token okay So let me execute
this. Now here it's the same thing. We
are going to be uh map the data set.
Okay. Now which data set guys we are
using? We are going to use the same data
set. So uh here let's see the data is
available or not. If not, okay, the data
is available. Now what I'll do? I'll
load it again because I restarted the
session. So I will lose my data. Okay, I
will lose the variable basically. So
where is my data now? First of all, I
will import this uh import statement.
Now FS extract data. Okay, this is fine.
Now, PDF, this is perfect. Uh, regular
expression, this is also correct.
Paragraph is there. Data. Okay, data.
Now, data set is ready. Okay. So guys,
here what I'll get? I'll I will get my
data set. So, let it run. Let it
execute. And what I'll do after that?
Uh, I will again tokenize. So, guys, you
need to rerun this step. Uh, restart the
session because you might get some issue
with the Laura configuration and all.
That's why restart the session.
So let me check. Okay, now it is done.
So here I got my data set. So where is
the data? Okay. So tokenizer is running.
Let it execute.
Okay. So here guys, it's still it is
connecting. Okay. Okay. Okay. So let it
connect. Uh or else what I can do? I can
disconnect and delete the runtime again.
I can connect. Okay. Uh okay. Fine.
Fine. Fine. not is done. So this is
Fine. Fine. not is done. So this is fine.
It's loading.
This is fine.
This is fine. Uh
guys, it might take time. First time now
it takes time. Okay.
Loa config get p model. This is a like
huge library.
Okay, so the library is loaded. Uh, now
what I'll do, I'll load the model then
tokenizer. Now here I'm going to append
the EOS token. Now this is my tokenizer
function. So let it run.
Okay, reconnect. Why it is disconnecting
every time
connected tokenizer is there. Okay, this
is required.
Uh don't know why it is reconnecting.
Okay. So guys uh I followed the same
step and I got my tokenized data. So
inside this tokenized data as you know
we will be getting the input attention
mask and label. You can include this
text column or you can exclude it's up
to you right. So uh you can pass along
with the text column as well as you can
exclude it also. You know how to do
that. So I get the I got the tokeniz.
Now after that what I'll do? So here
after getting a tokenized guys I will
load the model. Okay. Now this time guys
you can see we are going to load the
model in the 8 bit format. Okay. So uh
here I'm giving the model then uh
loading a model in 8 bit and then device
map is auto. Now it is saying bits and
byes require the latest version. So yes
we'll have to install it. That's what I
was saying. Uh just a second guys. Let
me execute it. pip install- u. Okay.
So this is done. If it is giving you
this particular warning then please uh
if it is giving you this particular
error then please install the latest
version. Now this is done. So yes this
is fine. Now what it is saying? Okay
fine guys. Let me uh restart the
session. So restarting a session. This
issue you will get in a collab. Okay.
While you are working with this library.
Now let me execute it. Okay. Autocausal
alarm is not defined. So here is fine.
Okay. So guys uh my model is ready and
my data is also ready. Everything is
done. Now here see guys we have loaded
the quantise model. uh let me write over
here uh loaded
the quantise
model right now what I'll do I'll define
my lora configuration so guys we'll
understand this configuration in a very
detail in the upcoming session so what
is the meaning of the task type so task
type is a causal lm means we are doing
the uh next word prediction rn means
rank okay rank of the matrix ro alpha so
this is again hyper parameter target
module Q and V. So this is related to
the uh attention layer. Okay, Q, KV. So
Q query and V means value. So we are
targeting to this particular module. Now
Laura dropout 0.05 bias is none. So
we'll understand all these parameter in
a very detail. So here you can see the
complete list of it. It's a very huge
number of parameter. But until we are
not getting the mathematics of it. Until
we are not understanding the mathematics
of it, uh we'll not be able to get the
complete one. So definitely I'll show
you in the upcoming session. So here I
define the Lora configuration. Now what
I'll do? I'll load the parameter
efficient model. Okay. Get PET model.
I'll give the model. I'll give give the
Lora configuration. So this model is
going to be my quantise Lora model.
Okay. Quantise Laura model. So yes uh
model is getting loaded. Let me define
the lura configuration and see the model
is getting loaded. So it's saying model
is getting loaded. So it's saying model model.
Okay, let me check what I have inside
this model.
M model.
Okay, so this should not be the case.
Just a second. Let me load it again.
Actually, we should get the model. I
think I run that uh model string again.
That's why it's coming like this. Okay,
we should have the actual model over
here. So yeah, this is the case. Just a
second because I already loaded the
model. So it will not take much time.
Okay, done. Now see this is my model,
right? So here if I'm going to load it,
so I'll be getting the Q Allora model.
Now my training argument would be the
same one. Then I have the trainer right
so let me define the trainer so here
what I'll do I'll give my Q Lora model
okay then argument then tokenize is the
data set let me check with this
particular variable uh tokenize is
correct now once I'll run it so my
trainer will be ready now what I'll do
guys I will train my model so tokenize
is not defined uh tokenize tokenize
tokenize okay this is my tokenize so if
I'm going to execute it my tokenize is
ready. Now what I'll do guys I will run
it and my trainer is ready. Now this
time I will not get any error because
what we are doing we are going to do the
Lora based training. So if I'll do this
trainer train my model will be trained
guys. Okay. So see uh I have a very less
data and we are doing Lora training. So
that that's why it's not taking much
time and we are just doing for the two
epoch. So see the training loss is here
and you can see the other metadata. So
see the training loss is 9.66. You can
run it for the more data and for the
multiple epochs but that is not a case
right now mean we are not running we are
not learning that how to reduce how to
improve the accuracy and all that will
be the different uh thing. So for that
also I will create one session but as of
now we have to learn how to train the
model at least right. So my model is
trained now after that I can get it uh I
can get my model over here. see tiny
llama Laura and under this particular
folder my model is available inside this
checkpoint right so what I'll do I'll
copy the path and this particular path
I'll keep it keep it inside the double
code and this is going to be my model
path now what I'll do guys tell me after
training the model I'll do the
prediction right so let me do the
prediction with this particular model
now first of all guys what I'll do I
will load the model now I'm going to
load the model so here is my trained
model Okay, train_model.
Trained uh on the domain specific data.
So let me execute it and see my train
model is loaded. Now what I'll do I'll
give any sort of a prompt to this model.
Let's say my prompt is clinical trial
demonstrate that combine atroestine with
as a timi right something like that
right I took it from this particular
data. I don't even I don't have the
domain specific knowledge but I kept uh
this prompt from this uh data itself.
see here uh from this data okay you can
check out with the different other data
now what I'll do I will uh perform the
tokenization of this data I already have
a tokenizer so here I will perform the
tokenization now what I'll do I'll get a
output so here model model generate now
which model train model okay so train
model dot generate input max token this
much temperature top do sample
repetition penalty so these are all the
parameter which we can pass but you just
need to focus on this input. Now once
I'll run it guys I will be getting my
output. Now here I'm going to print my
output. So let me decode my output and
tokenizer dot decode and I'm giving the
output over here. Skip a special token.
I'm going to be skip that. Now let's see
the output. So guys see this is output.
K demonstrate that combining absor that
right. So guys uh here what we have done
we have performed the non-instructional
pre-trained LLM fine tuning means we
took the pre-train LLM and on top of our
domain specific data we have performed
the finetuning and we are able to get
the very amazing result but guys here
let's say if we are asking any sort of a
question and my model is not able to
generate that particular answer in that
tone a specific structure for that what
we will do we will do the structure
structure finetuning instruction
finetuning right so now on top of the
same model in the next session I will
show you the instruction finetuning so
that we can ask the question right more
structure question it can generate the
answer according to that uh now guys uh
let me discuss what are point we are
going to uh discuss in this particular
video so the first is what is the
instruction finetuning then how the data
looks like in the instruction finetuning
uh then we'll see why it is called the
supervised fine finetuning as I
discussed in the previous class that
this is instruction finetuning comes
under the supervised finetuning only uh
then I will come to the practical right
so this each and every point I will
discuss throughout this video and yes at
the end you will learn how you can uh
fine-tune your LLM model on the
instruction based data now guys without
wasting a time let's start with the
video let's understand the theory first
and then I will come to the practical
and then I will come to the practical guys.
So guys, uh before starting uh with our
instruction finetuning, let's take a
recap of uh some previous points. So uh
the first thing is what is the meaning
of the fine-tuning and why we do it. So
here is a definition. Fine-tuning means
retraining an already trained model on
your own specific data set. So guys, uh
here if I'm talking about the model,
right? So the model is nothing it's a
LLM model.
Now this LLM model it is based on the
transformer architecture as you know. So
uh let me write over here transformer.
So this transformer is nothing it is a
research of the Google which was
published in 2018 itself. Okay. It was a
sequencetosequence architecture where we
were having two main thing. one was the
encoder and the second was the decoder.
So the GPT model right uh the GPD model
actually it was built on top of the
decoder decoder part of the transformer.
So if you want to understand the LLM
then before coming to any LLM
architecture understand about the
transformer okay and then jump to the
LLM. Now here I'm saying uh LLM right?
So we are going to be retrain already
trained LLM and uh if I'm going to be
talking about the training right so what
we going to train here so we're going to
train weights and biases okay so weights
and biases
now uh this weights and biases where you
will get this uh weights and biases
inside this transformer architecture. So
uh we have attention right we have
attention layer inside the transformer
plus neural network. Okay. So this
transformer one single block of the
transformer it is a combination of the
attention layer as well as the neural
network. Right? So uh there we will get
the weight and biases and yes uh we are
going if we are going to be train our
model means we are going to adjust the
value of this bits and biases based on
that loss function and the optimizer and
if we are going to be again retrain it
in that case also we are going to be uh
adjust the value of the bait and biases
according to your data okay that's a
whole sort of a meaning of the training
or retraining right so uh I think you
understood about it uh and if you don't
know about this basics and all then you
can follow my previous video there I
already discuss about this thing in a
very detail along with the practical
right now uh if you're talking about the
LLM training process so in the LLM
training process the three stage plays a
very important role the first step is
called the unsupervised pre-training or
it is also called the self-supervised
training uh which we are doing on the
common crawl data set so generally ly we
consider the internet data over here the
entire internet data. Okay. Uh then uh
the second thing is called the
supervised finetuning. Now inside the
supervised finetuning I discuss two
thing. The first uh basically first uh
behalf on the parameter.
Okay. And the second uh based on the uh
the second based on the data right I
will again uh give you that recap. The
third was the preference based alignment
or preference based training. Now here
whatever uh output we are going to be
generate right from the AI from the
model. Okay. So based on that particular
output based on the feedback of the user
again we are going to retrain our model
right. So that comes under this
preferencebased alignment. So here we
have very popular algorithm that is
have very popular algorithm that is called
PO right? It is a reinforcement learning
based technique. Now apart from the PO
we have one more state-of-art technique
that is called DPO okay direct
preference optimization. So we'll
discuss that in our next video. Okay and
even I will show you the mathematics and
all in my upcoming videos. So guys uh
here my main focus onto this supervised
finetuning. Now let's take a recap of
it. So as I told you if we're talking
about the supervised finetuning so we
can divide into two section right. So
one uh basically it is based on the
parameter already I discussed this thing
in my previous video I'm just giving the
recap of it and the second behalf on the
data right now if you're talking about
the parameter wise uh so parameter wise
the first one is called the full fine
tuning okay full fine tuning and the
second is called and the second is
called partial finetuning
Okay, partial fine-tuning, full
fine-tuning means we are going to
retrain all the parameters. Okay, inside
the model whatever parameters we have,
we are going to train all the
parameters. So generally we don't take
we don't follow this particular
technique. So we always go with the
partial finetuning means we take subset
of the parameter over here. Okay, subset
of the parameter. Now we're talking
about the partial finetuning. So we have
two techniques over here. The first
technique is called the old technique.
Okay, old technique. Now here in the old
technique what we are doing, we are
going to be uh freeze. Okay, we are
going to be freeze some layer. Okay, and
we are going to be trained some layer
right some layers.
some layers. Okay. But guys, in terms of
LM, we don't follow this particular
technique. Right? Instead of that, we
have second technique that is called
PFTbased technique. Parameter efficient
finetuning technique. And in that Lora
is a very famous technique, right? So,
LoRa is very famous technique. Now,
apart from the Lora, I discuss couple of
more variants of the Lora, couple of
more techniques. So if you want to
understand that you can watch out my
previous video there I discuss in a very
very very detail. Okay. So uh here you
understood we are going to perform the
partial finetuning and in that we're
going to discuss about the pft and lora
is one of the way to follow the p okay
to perform the parameter efficient
finetuning. Now the second uh is based
on the data. So if we're talking about
the data guys, so data uh we could have
okay let me take a different color over
here. So uh data basically uh is
available right in a non-instructional
available right in a non-instructional format.
All right in a noninstruction format or
this is also called the plain text.
Now this plain text it would be
available in any sort of a document.
Okay, in any sort of a document. Now
this document could be the PDF document.
This document could be the PPT document.
This document could be the docex. Right?
This document could be anything. Right?
Wherever basically we'll find out the
plain text that comes under this
non-instructional category. The second
data uh the second type of data is
called the instruction data. Okay.
Instruction data. In instruction data
actually how it looks like uh I will
show you that. So instruction data
actually uh there we will be having
input column as well as the output
column okay as well as the output
column. So guys this supervised
finetuning this specific term actually
it is being used in terms of this
context in terms of this instruction
data. Okay where actually we have a
input and we have a output. If you will
uh if you will uh think about the
machine learning right so in the machine
learning guys uh we have supervised
machine learning and in the supervised
machine learning uh what kind of data we
have the data where we have a output
column okay uh so in whatever data we
have a output column and we are feeding
that data to the algorithm any algorithm
it's a decision tree xg boost or svm
right and behalf on that labels the y
column if my model is learning so that
is what that is
supervised learning in a same way guys
this SFT actually okay so because of
this instruction finetuning only it is
called the SFT means we have a input
column and the output column so then
what is this non-instructional data okay
means uh it does not comes under the
supervised finetuning I would say no not
directly because this instruction
finetuning technique right it is only
called means because of that only uh we
call it the supervised fine tuning ing.
Why? Because we have a labelled over
here. Okay? The output column, right? Uh
now guys over here what we are going to
be see now one more thing let me tell
you over here if we talking about the
LMS right so whatever technique uh we
are discussing right let's say in
whatever stage we are so let's say we
are at first stage uh at this particular
stage unsupervised pre-training or
self-supervised learning uh there also
we are we are going to predict the next
token. Okay. Now uh we we are at this
particular stage SFT supervised
finetuning. Uh at this stage also we are
going to predict the next token. We'll
format our data in such a way uh that
model will predict the next token only
right and in the preference based
alignment or in this particular uh like
technique again we are going to predict
the next token. So in whatever way we
have a data right uh it doesn't matter.
Let's say we have a data the entire
internet data without label. In that
case also we'll arrange a data in such a
way that's going to predict the next
token. If we have a data in the
instruction in the output format in that
case also we are going to predict the
next token. We'll format our data in
such a way we'll predict the next token.
If we have a preference based alignment
alignment means we have generated output
as well as the feedback regarding that
in that case also we'll format our data
in such a way that model is going to
predict the next token. Okay. So as it
is a language modeling language modeling
and model will always predict the next
token in whatever way we have a data.
Okay. At whatever stage we are going to
be uh perform the training right. So I
hope guys this thing is clear. This is
the fundamental which I already
discussed. Now uh let me uh talk couple
of more point. So here I have written
why it is called the supervised
finetuning. So in pre-training uh that
is a first stage right uh there we are
doing a training on top of the entire
internet data uh where uh actually that
that particular stage is also called the
self-supervised learning means the label
uh will be the next token itself inside
the sentence. Uh so there actually what
we are doing so in the pre-training data
model predict the next token from the
natural text itself right but if we're
talking about the instruction finetuning
there also model is going to predict the
next text but we have curated data in
such a way that we will be having the
target column. Okay. So in instruction
fine-tuning model predicts the next
token only but from the human curated
target answer. I will show you the
example and because of that it is called
the supervised finetuning means this
instruction finetuning is only called
the supervised finetuning. So uh guys
over here I can give you the quick
recap. Uh we're talking about the LLM
training process. So we have three
stages unsupervised pretending or
self-supervised. There's the first stage
where we are going to be create our raw
model. Second is called the supervised
fine uh tuning where we have already
seen uh about the partial fine tuning uh
that is called paft and uh that is a
lora. Okay. Uh this is based on the
parameter right how many parameter we
are going to be select while we are
going to be train the model. Now data
wise how we are going to prepare the
data while training a model. So we have
two ways. First is the non-instruction
where we just have plain text right and
second is the instruction based data.
Now because of this instruction based
data we came up we end up with this
specific name that is called the
supervised finetuning. Okay but guys uh
if we just have plain text then uh
ideally we should not say it's a
supervised finetuning means here we will
say we are just going to be fine-tune
our model okay on top of on top of our
domain specific data. Okay. Uh now I
hope everything is clear. So uh let's do
one thing. Let's uh take some example
and uh then after that we'll start with
the practical guys.
Now guys uh let's uh revise the
differences between the uh
non-instruction and the instruction
finetuning and after that I will let you
know why uh this instruction finetuning
is required and then we'll move to the
practical. So uh non-instruction
finetuning first uh let's discuss about
this one non-instruction finetuning. So
fine-tuning on a plain text means
teaching the model your domain language.
Uh now what's the purpose of it? So the
purpose it to help model to learn uh the
language tone and the terminology is
specific to your domain. Okay. So let's
say if you have this type of data uh the
plain text which is available in any
sort of a document. So on top of this
data we are going to be retrain or we
are going to be fine-tune our LLM model.
Now uh in which format we are passing
our data to the model. So uh the uh data
uh you will get at the end you will get
in this particular format means uh we
are going to put the next token. Okay.
So the next token will be in my output
column. So let's say this is my
sentence. Okay. So this is the next
token regarding it. Now this is my
sentence. Now here is the next token.
Now this is my complete sentence and
this is the token. Right? We already
understood in previous uh video. So uh
let me give you uh one more concept over
here. Uh let's say uh there is one
company uh let's say there's meta okay
meta has trained one model the model
name is llama
4.2 two something like that. Now you
want to be use this particular model
inside your organization. Okay.
So you belong to let's say pharma.
So you belong to let's say pharma. Okay.
Okay. Pharma.
Now in your company in your organization
you want to be used this particular
model. So what you will do? So you will
directly take a model and start using
it. No, this is not a right thing
because this model
this model does not know
this model does not know the
the farmer
specific term,
right? This model does not know about
the pharma specific term. So it will
hallucinate. So what you will do here
you will fine-tune you will go with the
fine-tuned now here uh for the
finetuning directly you will finetune on
the instruction data set means directly
you will finetune on the input and
output data set you can do it you can
teach your model
okay you can teach your model if this is
the input then regarding that what will
be the output
This is only called the instruction
This is only called the instruction tuning.
But guys, this is not a good practice.
Okay, directly to teach your model
on a input and output, it's not a good
practice, right? So in between what you
can do, you can take your data
can do, you can take your data company
company specific
data. Okay, from wherever you have
collected that. So you will be have a
big corpus okay for your company data.
Then first perform the
non instructional
fine tuning.
Now with this particular tuning
your model will understand
your model will understand your
data right. It will understand the
specific vocabulary.
It will understand the terminology. It
will understand the technicality of your
data. Means overall it will deep dive
into your data. Right? And after
performing this particular step the
non-instructional finetuning then come
to this stage where you are teaching to
your model the more structure output
based on the given input. I hope this
thing is making sense. So that's why
guys this step. Okay, most of the like
YouTube video will not teach you this
thing. This particular stage is very
much important and I already covered in
my previous video. You can go and check.
Now coming to the instruction
finetuning. So in the instruction
finetuning uh you will get a data right
in the form of instruction in the form
of input. Okay. So let's take example of
it. So first of all let's discuss the
purpose. So what is the purpose of it?
to train the model to understand
instruction and generate well structure
and the relevant answer. Okay. So to
generate a structure and the relevant
answer based on the given instruction.
So you will find out a data in this
particular way in this particular format
where you will be having the
instruction. You will be having the
input regarding the uh the corresponding
input and the output. So instruction uh
summarize the following paragraph. Now
this is the input regarding it. Okay.
And we are going to be summarize. So
this is my summarization. Here is my
summarize output. So after giving this
particular input uh we should get this
kind of output. Okay. So this is my
instruction. Now without input also you
will find out uh without input also you
will find out some sort of a rows. So
let's say you have a instruction list
application of EI in pharmaceutical
research means here you are giving input
and then this is the corresponding
output. Okay. Now here one more example.
So explain a mechanism of the MAD
format. Now we don't have any sort of
input. Now here is my output. Okay. So
in this way also you will get a data. So
this data set format was followed in the
alpaka right. So if you will check with
this alpaka right. So this is one of the
data set which was uh prepared by the
researcher. I will show you the research
paper and the hugging face data set and
all everything. Uh I think I showed in
my previous video. You can check over
there. Right. So in this format only the
data set have been prepared but apart
from this one you will find out data set
in some different format also. So this
is the one format instruction input and
response. As I told you this is the
alpaca right. Uh apart from that you
will get the instruction uh this input
could be the context and this response
could be the answer in this format also
you can also prepare the data. You can
directly prepare the question answer
data as a user at the assistant. Okay.
In user uh column you can give your
questions and in assistant you can write
your answer. You can give the uh you can
prepare data in this format also system
user and assistant. Okay, this is also a
way to prepare data for the instruction
finetuning otherwise context and
response. See here I kept one example
for the context and the
response guys. So I hope uh this thing
is clear in which format actually you
will get a data for the instruction
finetuning. Now here is one more point I
written I missed this part. So you can
read it out. Uh if instruction uses
extra text means if you have a
instruction and the input right. So in
that case mostly you will find out we
are uh like uh saying to the model do
the summarization translation rewrite
you can go ahead with this uh particular
example. So here we are giving a
instruction to our model with respect to
this input and then we are generating
this output. Now uh here you can see the
second line if instruction is a
selfcontain okay if instruction is
having the self-contained context or
dialogue style or conversational data
then you can keep input empty means this
thing right I I just written as a extra
note and I think you are able to get it
what I'm trying to say here means if we
have an instruction then we are giving a
instruction with respect to this
corresponding input uh if we don't have
any sort of input means uh in the
instruction only we are keeping some
context okay some question and regarding
that here is our output as simple as
that so uh I hope guys you understood
this entire thing now the biggest
question how you are going to be
generate this instruction data because
uh in every company that's why if I'm
taking example of any XY Z company any
ABC company or any uh YX company
everywhere you will not find out this
kind of data okay sorry not this kind of
data means instruction data So what is a
way of preparing the data the
instruction data okay the first way see
here now the question is how to prepare
the data for the instruction finetuning
means in your company let's say the data
is available in the PDF right so this is
the biggest hurdle you have trained you
have done the non-instructional
finetuning but how you will teach your
model to generate the structure answer
right so for this one for generating a
structure answer you will have to
prepare that kind of data input and
output. How you will do that, right? So,
here is a way. First, you can do it
manually. You can write your own like
question means you can uh only create
your question and answer, right? Uh but
you cannot do it for very huge scale.
Here the accuracy would be very very
high. But uh this could not be ideal. If
you have very less data or maybe
mediocre data in that case maybe you can
do it but there's not an ideal
situation, right? The second thing isme.
So again it's a manual way only expert
is doing that you are like hiring some
intern and all for doing this specific
thing or some theme just to for doing
this thing or
like so many people are working in
parallel then this process could be
faster but again this human annotation
is not a idle thing for the bigger data
set. So the last thing is the LM
synthetic data means here to the LLM
only you can give some instruction
uh not instruction I would say
instruction instruction will be the like
confusing here to LLM only you can
provide some prompt okay uh some guides
right to the GPD kind of to GPD model to
cloud a model right so those model only
can prepare your instruction data set
means let's say you have a plain text
this text you are feeding to your GPD
model and you are saying can you prepare
some question and answer from this
particular text GPD model will do it for
you. So this is the one of the way and
company is following this specific way
uh like they can generate an synthetic
data. Now guys uh the next thing is uh
let's say if we have a data in this way
okay but how the LLM will look into the
data okay means it will be like this
instruction then input and then output
right separate separate one like uh we
are having in the machine learning as I
told you uh this is a supervised
learning right supervised why it is a
supervised because we have a human
curated output over here but actually
this is a language modeling. Language
modeling means we are doing a next token
prediction. Okay. So at the end we'll
have to format this data in such a way
that so that LLM can perform the next
token prediction. Right? So let's say
this is my data instruction input and
output. So here you will be formatting
your data in this way. So here is the
instruction then this is the input.
Right? And here you can see the response
guys getting my point. So here guys the
uh native right the native role or the
native behavior of the LM to predict the
next token only right so because it is a
language modeling
the native behavior of the LLM to
perform the next token prediction. So
for sure in whatever way we have a data
at the end we'll have to prepare a data
in such a way that model can perform the
next prediction. So uh let's say we have
instruction input and output. So for
sure this is a supervised data because
we have a label over here but at the end
we will feed the model in this specific
format. Okay means input and instruction
will be there along with the responses
and model is going to be learned from
this specific responses.
I hope uh this is getting clear. Now
let's see why this kind of tuning is
required. Why instruction tuning is
required then we'll move to the
practical. Now guys uh let's understand
why this instruction fine tuning is
required. Uh let's take a look onto it.
Uh so here I written a base LLM like
llama, falcon, GPT or any LLM model. It
only knows how to predict the next
token. Okay. So I written over here this
means this means it understand the
pattern only pattern of the data and
based on the pattern only it's going to
be decide what will come next okay next
token or sentence prediction uh so here
is example you can see the example we
have input mattformin is used for so
this will complete the text the output
will be the treatment of type type 2
diabetes melitus okay this is fine but
Guys, if we are giving this kind of
prompt to the model like explain this,
summarize this, write this, translate it
or what it is right. So in this case the
model is going to be fail means model
will not generate the appropriate answer
in a convers. See model will not
generate a answer in a natural language
like how we are we human are talking
right. So that's why guys the
instruction finetuning is required and
that was the uh like successful mantra
behind the chat GPT right how chat GPT
is giving the uh human curated answer
right uh human compatible answer because
of this instruction fine-tuning so let's
say yeah here here is example if you
will ask the model write three points on
mattforming mechanism so it might
response with something like this write
three point on Matt forming mechanism is
request mean it will just predict the
next token instead of giving the three
bullet point or three points. Okay. Now
because of this right because if we want
a instru uh like a structure answer or
if we want a relevant answer right if we
want a answer in a human curated form uh
for that only this uh instruction
finetuning will be required. So here I
written so the conclusion is to teach
the model the meaning and purpose of
different different prompts. Okay. So
for the different different prompts we
perform this instruction finetuning. Now
in the instruction finetuning how the
data will look like as you know right
and what will be the result. So result
could be anything whatever user is
asking. So I hope you understood why
this instruction finetuning is required.
Now without wasting a time let's start
with the practical.
Now guys uh let's start uh with the
practical of the instruction finetuning.
So in this IPV file I kept the entire
code. Uh now in the previous uh video I
have shown you the practical of the
non-instruction finetuning. This entire
code is already available on my YouTube
channel. Please go and check uh the
description of the previous video. You
will get the link of this GitHub. Okay.
Now in the previous video guys I have
used this particular data mattform
forming PDF. So inside this PDF I just
having one single page okay but in the
real time the data could be very very
huge. Now guys this was the
non-instructional data means the plain
text. So I trained my model on top of
this data but in this video we required
the instruction data set means we
required the question means the
instruction and the corresponding
responses. Okay. So uh I already created
a data I will show you in some time
right. uh now over here guys uh so I'm
going to use the same model which I
trained in the previous video okay so
what is my uh ideology over here let me
uh tell let me talk about that that what
I want to teach you so uh let's say we
have one pre-trained model
okay so we took the llama model this is
from the meta
from the meta now
I got a problem statement that okay uh I
have to fine-tune this model for some
pharma data right so uh I downloaded
this model this pre-train model which
was this one tiny llama 1.1 intermediate
was this one tiny llama 1.1 intermediate step
1431 K3T okay this model is a quite
small that's why I have used it
otherwise you can use any sort of a
model if you have a good infrastructure
now guys uh I took a pre-trained model I
trained it okay I performed the non
trained it okay I performed the non instruction
instruction finetuning
on plain text. Okay. Now, why did I uh
why I perform it? So that I can teach my
model the specific term terminology.
Okay. I can make my model basically this
farmer ready. Now I will teach my model
to follow the instruction. Okay. Now
what I'll do I will do the instruction
fine tuning. Okay. on instruction data
set. So guys uh I have a data set the
plain text and all I taught my model uh
basically uh the language the tone and
all everything. Now I will uh take this
instruction data set and I will teach my
model how to response with respect to
the different different questions. Okay.
Then in the next video I will discuss uh
the preference alignment. So based on
the user preference okay which response
needs to be picked up. So the next uh
video I will uh upload with respect to
this preference alignment. So as of now
we are over here. Uh I hope you got it.
So guys uh whenever uh uh so when I was
training this model right. So I already
uh saved this model. So let me show you.
So I already saved this model under this
directory uh you can check with my
previous video. Okay I shown you over
there. And what I did after that I jiped
the model. Okay. And I downloaded that
so that I can use it anytime. So here
what I'm doing I'm going to be uh I'm
going to be basically unjip this file
this tiny Lora.j file and then I will
load my previously trained model. So
first of all let me load the tokenizer.
Uh I'm going to be execute this one.
This is perfect. I think you are able to
understand it clearly. Now uh let me run
this. Okay. Let me import all the
necessary uh libraries. So uh here I
think you are already familiar with all
these libraries. Okay. Uh now what I'm
doing guys I'm going to be load the
tokenizer. Tokenizer is very much
required to perform the tokens to get a
tokens. Okay and the token ID with
respect to the data. Now here what I'm
doing guys I'm going to be unjip the
model. See here is my model this one.
After unzipping it I will get like this
this one. This is my folder. I already
done it. That's why I'm getting it. But
if you are running it first time you
will means if you have this jip and
basically if you will run it then you
will only get this checkpoint. Right? So
I'm going to be execute it and see after
unjpicate I'm getting this checkpoint
checkpoint dash five. Okay now uh guys I
got my model. Now let me load my model.
So this is my model path. So what I'm
doing I'm passing it to this particular
method auto model for causal lm from
pre-train. And here I'm passing my model
path. Okay. And device map is equal to
auto. So I got my non-instructional
model. Right now what I can do guys
after loading this model. So it might
take some time if you're doing it first
time. Now I am giving my prompt. This is
my prompt. Clinical tri demonstrate that
whatever. Right? Now what it will do? It
will try to predict the future tokens.
Okay. So it is not any instruction. It
is not a like a specific question. It's
just a simple sentence. Okay. And it
will try to complete this sentence. So
here's my prompt. First I will tokenize
it. Then I will pass my input. Okay. And
these are the other parameter. I will
discuss this parameter. It's very easy
to understand. So how many max token
would be there in the output.
Temperature means uh whether my output
will be creative or not. Okay. Top P is
also belonging to the same thing. Right?
So this parameter we'll discuss in the
upcoming session I will discuss some
more theoretical more like a
mathematical point. Okay. So there we
can talk about it or else we'll discuss
any sort of API right open a API cloud
API and there also basically we'll get
this parameter and for sure we can
discuss. Now here I got the output see
and I let me show you the output. So
first we'll decode it and uh after the
decode see you will get the output. See
critical tri demonstrate that combine
at o westin with is it timbi is a safe
and effective to treatment of the like
and effective to treatment of the like cholestromia
okay so like these are some pharma
related terms some disease related
disease specific term even I'm not
familiar with it so see it is able to
generate the response right now what
I'll do guys so here first of all let me
show you how the instruction data set
look like and then I will take the same
model this non-instructional model and
then uh we'll try to perform the
finetuning. Okay. So to just give you
the demonstration see what I did I
already I'm loading this pre-built data
set inbuilt data set from the hugging
face itself. It is already available
inside this repository amod repository
and the data set name is this mental
health counseling conversation right so
once I load it guys see I'll get the
data inside this variable data set
data inside this variable data set variable
okay now uh here if I can show you the
data see this data okay is data set so
let me write over here data set so I got
the data set now inside the data set I
have just I just have two column context
and the responses Okay. And how many
rows we have? We have 3 512 rows. Right
now I already downloaded this data set
just to showcase you. I downloaded in
both format. In any format basically you
can you can keep the data. So this is a
CSV format. Let me show you the CSV
first. Okay. So inside this CSV you will
get the context and the responses right.
So uh uh as I told you this uh
instruction instruction finetuning data
set it could be available in any sort of
a format. Even I uh given you the uh
example over here. So instruction input
response instruction context answer user
assistant system user assistant context
and response. So inside this data set
which is already available over the
hugging phase. Okay. So inside this data
set basically you will get two column
one is a context and second is the
responses. Now see the same data set
basically I saved in the JSON format
also. So yes for sure you can keep it in
both format. Right now what I'm doing uh
here uh so I loaded the data set now I'm
going to be formatted. So here basically
I will be having my question means this
context is nothing is a question this
response is nothing it is a answer right
now I'm going to be combine both and
after that I'm keeping inside this text
column. So let me execute it. So after
executing it after executing it guys see
what I'm doing I'm mapping my entire
data set data set map. Okay. And here uh
I'm my I'm I'm mapping my function. My
function name is this format row. Okay.
So once I'll do it guys, I'll be getting
my formatted data set. Let me show you.
So here is my context. This is my
responses and this is my text. Okay. So
see over here. So instruction what is
the instruction
I inst
this this that right? And then with
respect to this instruction here you can
see the final responses. Okay. So what I
did guys, I formatted my data set means
either I can keep this contact and
response. Okay? Or I can keep it like
this instruction and this/ instruction.
So instruction is only representing the
question and the SL instruction is
representing to the answer. Right? Now
over here instead of writing this
instruction and question I can simply
write this context means hash has
context. Okay? Or like this context and
then response. Right? Let me show you
how I'm I can keep it. So you can keep
like this. So let's say here is your
context and this is your response. Now
whatever text column you will get so
whatever text column you will get you
will get like this means instead of the
instruction you will be having the
context and then instead of this last
instruction you will be having the
responses. Okay in any sort of a form
you can keep it but over here what I
wanted to show you that I have to pass
my data as a final string only. Okay
this context and responses. Now what I
did over here see I created a data frame
of this data set uh the data set which I
loaded. Now see context and responses
you will get the context responses under
this data frame. Okay. Then what I did I
just saved it. So here I already shown
you this file right. So I can uh
basically load the data from the hugging
face I can save it in my local or else
if I have a data in my local the CSV
data and all whatever right I can simply
keep it over the hugging face. I can
compatible into the I can create a
compatible data set. Okay with respect
to this hugging face everything is
possible. Right. So see I have converted
into the JSON I converted into the CSV
and both way it is possible. I hope this
entire thing is clear. So this is just
guys this is just a uh like this is just
a demonstration that how the instruction
data look like okay and how to format it
for the training. Now uh in my case in
this particular practical I'm going to
use my own data set means I'm not going
to be use any pre-built data set over
here. Uh I will be using uh this
particular data. See let me show you the
CSV. So under the CSV basically you will
only get five to six rows. See uh how
many rows is there. I just have one uh
then two then three
then four and five. Okay only five row.
Now I have a instruction. Okay this is
the output of it. Then again instruction
output of it. Instruction output of it.
Now instruction. Now this is the input
and here you can see the output of it.
Then instruction uh here you can see the
input and this is the output. Right? So
guys uh you can uh read this data, you
can analysis this data. on top of this
data only we are going to perform the
training. Okay, we are going to perform
the finetuning. Uh now guys uh here what
I shown you I shown you how the
pre-built data set look like it could be
in any sort of a like uh like there
could be any sort of a column right and
here what we are doing now guys we are
going to be load our own data set this
data set actually I created by myself
manually okay you can create it using
the lm you can take a help of any
subject matter expertise right and you
can generate this instruction data set
now how chat GPT has done that so chat
GPT actually took the conversational
data data set. So, conversational data
set from the Reddit, from the Kora, from
the GitHub, from the different different
places. Okay. But if you're doing for
our domain specific problem statement in
that case, we only have to create this
data set. Okay. So, I kept the data in
both format, CSV and JSON. In the real
time also, it could be in any sort of a
format. Okay. Now, I'm going to be
loaded in a CSV format. So, uh let's
load it and perform the formatting.
Now guys uh I loaded my CSV data over
here with this function load data. Uh
then I'm passing this parameter CSV.
Then I'm passing my file path. Okay. And
then I'm writing is split is equal to
train means whatever data I'm going to
be load over here it will be a train
one. Uh now uh inside the data set you
can see we have three column instruction
input and output. Uh I can uh show you
over here. This is my data set uh which
I am using. Okay. Now what I'll do? So
after that guys I will format it as a
single string. As I told you whatever
data goes to the llm. Okay. It goes to
as a single string. Right? So let me run
it. Let me execute it. See uh if you
will see this formatting prompt. So we
have a instruction right? Instruction
will come over here. Then we have a
input. Okay. Uh the example will come
over here and then response. Okay. So,
uh example input will come over here.
Then respond then example output will
come over here. Okay. So, uh here guys
if I will run it and after running it I
can map it. Okay. After mapping it, see
inside my data set I'm having four
column now. Instruction, input, output
and text. Now this particular column
this text column we are going to use it
for the training. Now let me show you
the first row over here. You can see so
we have a instruction then we have a
input and then we have corresponding
responses. Okay, this is my responses.
Now if you want to check with the CSV,
now over here see with check with the
CSV. So this is my instruction. Okay,
and then in the input I don't have
anything. It will be blank. Then I have
a output, right? So this uh first row is
going to be combined. Likewise the
second row will be combined. Third row
will be combined. Fourth row will be
combined. Uh means first row will be
combined and that will become my one
string. I will pass it to the LM for
training. Likewise the second row,
likewise the third row, fourth row and
so and so forth. Okay, I hope you got
it. So, uh guys, uh this is my data. I
have formatted my data. Okay, so first
row, second row, third row, fourth row
means whatever column we had over there,
we just combine that and we will be
passing as a single string. And in that
column, what we have? We have our
instruction and the responses of it. Uh
now guys, see this is the row which
looks like this only. Over here you can
see we don't have any sort of a input.
Input is none. And then we just have the
response. If the input would be there
then instead of the none the actual uh
data of for the input will be passed
over here. Now I'm going to be initiate
my tokenizer. Okay. Now I'm going to be
tokenize my data. So after tokenization
guys see here I'm going to tokenize my
data means I'm passing my single example
my first row. Okay. Now I'm taking the
text from there means this particular
value. Okay. Then I'm going to be
truncate. Truncate is equal to true. If
max length basically if it is going to
be exceed to the max length then we are
going to be truncated. Okay otherwise we
are going to be padded. If it is less
than this 512 right now here is one more
line token labels is equal to token
input ids dotcopy. So why I am doing it
as I told you the behavior of the model.
So the behavior of the model is to
predict the next token. Okay. So by
using this line uh basically I'm telling
to my model. So whatever data you will
get, whatever text you will get this
entire row. Okay. So you have to train
yourself in such a way that you are
going to predict the next token. This
all the thing I already discussed in my
previous video. Uh there also I have
used the same technique at some of the
places I have seen what I have seen
guys. So they are going to be mask the
value till the responses. Okay. So till
the responses they are going to be
masked the value means model will get to
know. Okay. So this till here basically
I have a instruction I have a question
and after that my response is coming. So
how I will mask the value till response
means this particular value I can put
any special token like let's say I can
put minus 100 over here. So here to here
whatever token is going to be create. So
for those token all the value will be
minus 100 and the actual token will be
assigned from here itself. Okay. Uh
actual token will be assigned from here
itself. So this kind of technique also I
have seen right. So just to teach the
responses to the model, we take this
kind of uh like uh we uh basically go
ahead with this kind of technique also,
right? But yeah, this is very effective
means we can uh entirely copy this input
ID to the labels. What does it mean?
Means I'm not going to be mask anything
model from this particular text model
will learn how to predict the next
token. Right? So here is the here all
the thing is done. Now what I'm doing
guys I'm going to be load my uh I'm
going to be basically load the model as
a lora model. So from the pept I have
used this lura config then get p model
then task type. Now here whatever
basically parameter I have used you can
see the description of it. Task type
means it's a causal lm means the next
value prediction next token prediction.
Now here r is representing to the rank.
So this could be the rank. Okay. Control
table parameter size. So now here Lora
alpha it's a scaling factor. So the
value will be between this one. So
balance adaption strength. Now Laura
dropout so dropout probability 0.5. So
it's a regularization value. Target
module which layer to tune. So I want to
tune this query and the value trade-off
between cost and quality means you can
select the other layer also. We have key
query value. Right. So you can select
the different layer which is remaining
the next one. Okay. Then biases biases
fine during none keep simple. Okay. So
over here guys we are going to be
mention this parameter but under this
particular like class Laura config you
will find out so many parameter. So
maybe after discussing the mathematics
of this lura we can talk about it right.
So here is my lura configuration guys.
Now what I'll do I'll write get pep
model. So here I will pass my
non-instructional model which I trained
in my previous video and I here I'm
passing my lura configuration. Okay. Uh
now I will be getting my lura model. See
here I got the lura model. Now what I'm
doing I'm going to be define my training
argument. So tiny llama instruction here
I will be getting my instruction model
for three number of epoch I'm going to
be trained. Okay per device uh train b
size means how many batch in in how many
batch we are passing a data gradient
accumulation step. So at what all step
we are going to be calculate the
gradient learning rate regarding the
optimizer it's a precision value logging
step at which step we are going to be
log the value save total limit. Okay.
Now repeat uh report to none means we
are not going to be capture any sort of
a matrixes anywhere on any platform. So
this is my all the argument guys. Now
what I'll do I'll call the strain method
to the strain method. I'll pass my
model. I'll pass my argument. I'll pass
my tokenization. Right now my trainer is
ready. Now what I'll do? I'll call the
train. Okay. So here guys see my model
is getting trained on top of this data
set. Now my model is my model got
trained. Now here actually you will get
the model. See tiny llama instruction.
This is my model. Okay. And under this
you can see I have a checkpoint 3 and
see my model got saved over here.
Adapter model dots save tensor. Right
now uh let me uh execute it. See this is
a model path. Now after that what I can
do? I can load my instruction model. Now
here guys see this is my instruction
model. Now I can give this kind of
question to my model. Explain the
mechanism of the action of metformin.
Right. So earlier guys I was uh not uh
maybe I cannot give this kind of
question to my model. It will definitely
hallucinate. Okay, we'll we'll compare
that. Don't worry. But guys, now after
the instruction finetuning, we can give
this kind of question where see my data
set is very small. I just train it for
very simple epoch. Okay, my model is
also very small one. So, it might not
predict correctly. But if you are doing
it on a full scale with a good model,
with a good data set, with a huge data
set, okay, that definitely this
technique will work. So, here is my
prompt. Now, what I'll do, I'll tokenize
the prompt. I'll pass it over here.
Means I'll pass all the tokens over
here. Okay. Now uh I let me uh take the
output. So here guys you can see the
output. So what output is generating?
Clinical tri demonstrate that combine
atroen westin with azy timb is a safe
and effective for treatment of the
hyrochloro hychloro cholesterol mmia.
Okay. So guys uh here I asked what
explain the mechanism of the action of
the matt formine. So see it is going to
be explain everything right. So it is
going to be explain everything in the uh
normal human tone. Okay. Now uh over
here guys you can see. So this is all
the data which I have. Uh now guys I
wrote the CSV data. You can load the
data in the form of JSON also. Okay. And
this is the pre-built data set which I
took from the hugging phase means I
shown you how to load it from the
hugging face and even I shown you how
you can save it and after saving it
anytime you can load it. Okay. Or else
if you will get the data in CSV and JSON
then from there you can easily load
everything I have shown over here. Now I
hope guys this thing is clear. Now let
me show you one more thing I was telling
you that basically before the responses
okay we can mask the value so that model
can easily understand my response is
getting started from here. So I took one
code over here. Let me show you. So see
what is happening over here. See we are
taking a data set. Okay we are loading a
data set. We are formatting a data set.
After that we are passing it to the
tokenizer. Okay. The tokenization and
all everything is done. See here
basically I'm going to be initialize my
tokenizer. Now see I'm getting my text.
Okay. Now after that guys see I'm
getting my uh input ids means my tokens.
Now here I'm writing response marker. So
this is my response marker. Now wherever
I will find out this response of from
wherever the response is going to be
start response answer whatever you can
say. Now uh over here what I'm doing? So
I'm going to be mark it. Okay. I'm going
to be mark it with this see till till
the response actually I'm going to be
marked with this minus 100. Okay. So uh
till the response actually I'm going to
be mark it uh with minus 100 with this
special token and after that the normal
token would be there. So what does it
mean? The mean is very very simple. See
here I have written clone labels and
mask out everything before responses. So
the meaning is very very simple. My
model will be able to discriminate
between the instruction as well as the
responses. it will get to know okay till
here means this is a special token means
this is my input or like my instruction
and after that my actual response is
getting started okay so both training
you can do you can try out with this one
as well as the previous one okay you can
check which one is giving you the
effective result according to me the
previous one is a good one because here
there actually my model is learning onto
the uh my model is iterating onto the
entire string okay the entire row right
uh text uh the instruction uh input and
this uh responses Okay. Now here till
response we are masking and after that
only we are allowing to model to learn
through some tokens. Right. So yes I
have like written this logic over here.
You can go through with it. I have seen
in many like places people are following
that. So that's why I given you this
particular like solution as well. Okay
you can try it. Here is the entire code.
Now uh guys so I kept some question.
Okay. And what I'm doing over here I'm
going to be check with my uh
non-instruction and the instruction
model. what is going to be the answer
right so I have both model instruction
and the non-instructional so see this is
my question now what I'm doing I'm
iterating over the questions okay now
I'm tokenizing it and after tokenizing
it guys I'm passing to the
non-instructional model I'm generating
output and then printing the output now
here what I'm doing I'm going to be load
the tokenization model sorry I'm going
to be load the tokenizer then I'm
loading the instruction model okay and
then I'm going to be perform the uh then
I'm going to be generate the answer with
the instruction base model okay so here
I'm going to be generate the answer with
the non- instruction instruction here
I'm going to be generate the answer with
an instruction so you will be able to
understand okay so if I'm asking this
kind of question like explain this
summarize this what is this what is that
so instruction model will be able to
perform good compared to the
non-instructional model so that's why
guys instruction fine-tuning is required
see my data set is very small my model
is also very small so it might not give
the correct answer but if you are doing
it really first teach your model on your
do domain specific data set on your PDF
text and all and later on perform some
instruction tuning it
work well guys it is proven technique
okay Chad GPD also does did the same
thing right first they have trained the
entire net data first they have trained
on the entire internet data the
self-supervised learning and then after
that they have trained it on a question
answering task from the Reddit from the
hugging face sorry from the like
different different forum like GitHub
stack overflow and all right so let's
run it and let's see what is going to be
answer so here it can predict it see uh
the answer explain the mechanism of
metapforming so it It is saying explain
the metaphor for is dark. Fine. Now
here, okay. Expect output test case.
Test case. Okay. Now here it is saying
summarize how MRN. So guys, it is
predicting something, right? Some
garbage thing. Okay. Uh you you can try
out from your end. You can check, right?
You can take some more data and then uh
basically again you can retrain and
check check that out. Right. I took the
very specific question just four to five
row guys with respect to LM is nothing
just take some good data set retrain
your model okay uh on the instruction
data set and check okay means first take
the base model check with the
non-instructional data means some PDF
and all train it and then ask the
question and then again do one thing
create some instruction data give your
model so model will learn how to follow
this prompt and all and then then again
ask the question to your model and check
okay in which way it is performing well
in the instruction way or in the
non-instruction way right section. So
now uh let me uh show you that what all
thing you're going to learn inside this
particular video and then step by step
one by one we'll implement all those
things. So here I kept the complete uh
points guys. So uh we'll learn about the
preference alignment or preference
training. Uh then we'll understand why
do we do preference alignment means why
it is required. Then we'll see the
example data set example like how the
data set look like. If I have to do the
preference alignment then what kind of
data I will have to create. Uh then
we'll see techniques for the preference
alignment. So what all technique we
have? Uh we just know about the RLHF
that is called reinforcement learning
through the human feedback. But that is
not only one of the technique we have a
couple of other techniques. So
definitely I will discuss onto it and
even I will show you the research paper.
uh then the very famous uh infamous
technique for this preference alignment
that is called DPO training. So we'll
understood about the DPO training with
we'll see the mathematical formula. I'm
not going to show you the complete
mathematical intuition along with the
derivation and all. I will just focus on
the formula and we'll discuss about that
formula. Okay. Uh then we'll see the
practical implementation with the DPU
itself. So uh whatever model I had means
whatever model I trained in my previous
class the instruction finetune model I'm
going to take a same model and on top of
it I will perform the DPO that is called
direct preference optimization. Then uh
during the practical I will show you the
LoRa adapter means how you can use the
LORA adapter why you should not directly
implement the Lora okay if you are going
to be use the already fine-tuned model
okay how to use the LRA over there
definitely I'll show you that comes
under this LoRa adapter so yes we are
going to discuss all this point
throughout this tutorial now after this
tutorial guys you will be
uh you will like become a champion in
the preference alignment and you can
basically fine-tune okay you can train
uh any sort of a model on top of the
preference data now or let's start with
the theory then I will come to the
practical guys
now here guys I created a stepbystep
notes for all of you uh so that you can
refer it later and you can revise your
concept now before starting this thing
uh let me show you the notes from a
previous session. So for that uh I have
created one uh repository with the name
of this complete LLM fine-tuning. Uh
there only I'm uploading uh all the
notes and all everything. Now where you
will get a link of this repository? So
you will get inside the description of
the video. Okay. So uh here I uh uh
created a repository for the LLM fine
tetuning 14 for the 15 and 16. So the 16
basically it's a current video. Okay.
Now I likewise I will create for the
other uh basically video also I'm
getting so many requests uh sir please
upload all the nodes and all. So
definitely I'll update this particular
repository. Okay now guys if you will go
and check uh with the previous
repository or with the previous nodes
right so here it is uh let me show you.
So see all the files and all everything
I kept uh handwritten notes is there uh
IPV file is there, CSV file, JSON file,
even uh the GIF file, model GIF file
also I kept, right? So you can directly
download it and you can start your
practice. So guys, this was the
handwritten notes. Now here I discussed
some fundamental thing. Uh so I discuss
about the LLM training process. So the
first step of the LLM training process
is called the unsupervised pre-training
or self-supervised uh training. So here
we get the foundational model okay at
this particular stage. So we are not
going to perform uh this particular
thing from our end right we are taking
any foundational model from the hugging
face or from any other places. Now our
aim to perform the finetuning okay so
regarding the finetuning I shown you the
supervised finetuning. So I shown you
two way one with respect to the
non-instruction data and the second with
respect to the instruction data. Okay,
the instruction data one is like
specifically called the supervised
fine-tuning. But if you have
non-instruction data, in that case also
we can fine-tune the model. I shown you
each and everything. You can refer the
previous video. Now in this video we'll
discuss about the third point. Okay,
preferencebased alignment or training.
Right? So these are three main stage of
any LLM training. Right? And now we are
going to discuss this third one and uh
after this basically uh means after this
video you will find out video on top of
the different different framework. Okay.
Because uh in this video we'll complete
the third stage the last stage of the LM
training. Uh now guys uh let's start uh
with our with the theory of the LLM uh
base alignment or uh sorry preference
based alignment or preference based
based alignment or preference based training.
So guys uh to align or train a model
with a human expectation or with a human
preferred data is called preference
alignment or preference training. Uh so
this particular technique was introduced
by the open AI in uh instruct GPT paper.
Uh don't worry in some time I will show
you that particular paper and definitely
you can refer that. Uh now why we do it?
uh we do it to get a safe, helpful and
the honest model. Maybe you're not
getting couple of thing uh just by
reading this particular definition but
uh you will get once I will show you the
different different example. So uh here
I kept one example uh just read out uh
this statement. So uh user is asking one
question to the model. So uh the
question is very simple. How do I lose
my weight? Okay, how do I lose weight
faster? something like that. So, uh I
have a fine tune model. Uh let's say
this is the instruction finetune model.
Now, it is answering. It's a simple
thing. What you have to do, you just
have to stop eating, right? Just stop
the eating. Give me a moment. I think
now it's fine. Yeah. So, uh just stop
eating so much. Now, you can see the
answer is correct. But it is rude. It is
dismissive and there is no explanation.
means it is not aligned with the human
expectation. If JGP is giving you this
kind of answer, maybe you will not be
satisfied. The answer should be
according to the human expectation.
Right? So, uh let's say this is a output
from the instruction fine-tune model.
Now, just look into the one more
response. Right? Now, just by seeing
this response, you will be more happy.
And uh nowadays from the chair GPT or
from any uh any uh basically large
language model we are getting this kind
of output because the model further have
been trained on a human preference data.
Okay. Uh now just uh look into the
another answer. Now let's suppose we
have one more model which have been
trained on a preference based data. So
the answer is safe bait loss generally
happen gradually. Okay, you can start
with a balanced meal, regular movement,
uh adequate sleep and hydration. Uh if
you have medical condition, it's best to
get a personalized plan from a
professional. I can help you with a
simple step if you want. Now guys, just
look into the difference right between
this answer, this particular answer and
this answer. So if you want to generate
this kind of answer, right? So maybe you
will have to take one more step with
respect to your LLM training. You will
have to perform the uh RLHF, RL Aif that
is called reinforcement learning through
uh AI of generated feedback or you will
have to perform the DPO that is called
direct preference optimization. Now
first two technique RLHF and RL AIF it
is based on the reinforcement learning.
uh and the second technique DPO it is a
simple supervised training okay so yes
uh definitely we'll discuss now uh here
you can see in the second one in the
second output you can see uh the answer
is having a correct tone it is a
respectful right and it gives the proper
explanation with the like it is a more
helpful answer okay it's a more human
align answer so that's why guys I was
saying this preference training or
preference alignment is a very important
part of the LLM training. Now coming to
a couple of more example. So here I kept
one more line. So after the preference
based training model does not just
produce accurate answer. It behave
according to the user preference. Okay.
It uh behave according to the user
intention. Uh so that's a like key
difference between a normal fine-tuned
model or a align model like GP 4, GPD 5,
5.1, 40, 4.1 whatever like latest and
the state of state-of-the-art model you
can see. Now why we do this preference
training guys? So this preference
training we do to improve the uh safety
and ethics of the model. uh we do it for
generating the helpful answer for the
more polite answer. Okay, we teach the
model uh so which can uh response like a
human means which can response in
whatever way the human wants. I kept one
more example maybe with that your
understanding will be bit more clear. So
how I can lose 10 kg weight in one week.
So if we have a normally model normal
train model so see how it is going to be
generate answer you can stop eating
drink only water and take fat burner uh
burner pills uh this will uh reduce
weight quickly okay so just suppose this
model basically it has not been trained
on a human preferred data right now here
guys you can see the another answer now
another answer is rapid weight loss 10
kg in a week is unsafe okay and it is
medically harmful
A safer approach is just to loss 0.5 to
1 kg per week through balanced diet,
hydration and activity. If you have
urgent concern, please consult with the
doctor. Now guys tell me which answer
you will refer. So you will refer this
particular answer or this particular
answer or which is a more ethical which
is the more safe answer. So definitely
this answer is a more safer compared to
this one. So in the human preference
training in the hum uh in the preference
alignment basically we teach to the
model to behave like this. I hope you
are getting my point now. Now uh we'll
see the different different technique
what are technique we have and we'll
look into the DPO the DPO formulas and
all and then we'll go for the practical
all and then we'll go for the practical guys.
Now guys uh let's see the data set
example. Let's see how the data looks
like for the preference training. So
here I kept the example for all the
three method. Uh the first one is for
the non-instruction finetuning as well
as the unsupervised pre-trading. Uh in
both case uh the data will be the plain
text. Okay. Now how the input and the
output column will look like. So the
output output column will be the next
token. Okay. And the continue word. So
let's say this is my sentence. Now what
is the next word of it? This is the next
word. So this will be my output. Now see
this is my complete sentence. Okay. Till
oral. Now what is the next word? This is
my next word. Now uh here you can see
this is my complete sentence. Right? Now
what is the next word? This is the next
word. So inside the non-instruction
finetuning or inside the unsupervised
speed tuning what we are doing? We are
predicting a next word. So the next word
will be inside the uh output column.
Okay. Uh now how to decide the length of
this input and output. So for every
model we have one specific context
length. Okay. So according to that we
can decide right. Uh now the second is
the instruction finetuning. Now in the
instruction finetuning we'll be having
three column uh or sometime you will
only get two column. Okay. So the first
column is the instruction the second is
the input and the third is a response.
In this particular format you will get a
data or else the data would be like this
input uh called context and the answer.
Or the data might be like this user uh
and the assistant. Okay. or sometime you
will see context and the response means
uh the moral of the story is uh we will
be having one input column and the
corresponding output column. Okay. Uh
then how to format this data and how to
utilize it for training the model. Uh if
you want to know everything in detail
then please uh go and check with my
previous video. Right now how the data
look like for the preference training
that's the main agenda of this video. So
inside uh for the preference based
training guys you will find out three
column three main column right uh one is
a prompt second is a chooser and the
third is a reject now this two is very
third is a reject now this two is very important
choose right which one is going to be
select and which one is going to be
rejected. Now uh let me show you uh some
real example from the hugging face
itself. So here is a data from this
anthropic. So entropic is uploaded one
data. Okay. The repository itself is
entropic and the data set is called the
HH RLHF. Okay. Uh now here inside this
particular data you will find out two
column only. The first is a chosen and
the second is a rejected. Right. Now you
can see the another data. So inside see
this data basically it is available
inside this AR ga repository gilla.
Right. So the data set name is ultra
feedback binary preference clean data.
Now inside this particular data also you
will find out two main column. First is
the rejected and uh the second uh column
will be the chosen. Okay along with the
given prompt right now here is the
second third example. So this is
available inside this zin lily
repository. Uh so the data set name is
math step dpo 10k. Now inside this
particular uh repository also inside
this data set also you will find out two
main column. uh the first one will be
the chosen okay with respect to the
particular prompt and the second uh
column will be the rejected okay so see
here is a rejected so choose and reject
right select or reject this will be the
two main column inside any preference
data set right choose means which one we
are going to be select and reject means
uh which one we are going to reject
right I hope uh this thing is clear now
let's see the technique guys and then
what I'll
After that I'll show you the DPO
formula. Okay. And then we'll jump to
the practical.
Now guys let's see the technique for the
preference alignment. Uh so the very
infamous technique that is called RLHF
uh reinforcement learning through human
feedback. The second technique is RL Aif
reinforcement learning through AI
generated feedback. The third is DPO
direct preference optimization. Now
these are the algorithm KTO PO IPO it's
a reinforcement based algorithm uh to
implement this RLHF or RL if in RL a
also we use this particular algorithm
okay so what's the full form of this
algorithm just for the general knowledge
so KTO is called the canman tski
optimization PO stand for proximal
policy optimization and this IPO stand
for implicit uh preference optimization.
Now this is very famous technique guys.
Even OpenAI is also revealed that they
have used this particular technique
initially for the reward modeling. Okay,
PO proximal policy optimization. It is a
PO proximal policy optimization. It is a reinforcementbased
technique. Okay, reinforcement it's a
like reinforcement learning algorithm.
Now uh the technique is RLHF. What was
the core idea? The core idea to train a
reward model using the human feedback.
Uh now what kind of data we were using
there? ranked responses okay which was
ranked by the human uh example openai
instruct GPT so this is a research paper
one model basically was released by the
open regarding that model I'll show you
the research paper this open in GPT
there also you will see the use of this
RLHF technique okay through this PO the
second technique is called RL AIFF this
was introduced by the enthropic okay so
inside the RLif you will get the uh AI
generated feedback feedback. So human
generated feedback was not very scalable
idea means how many feedback can be
annotated by the human right maybe one
lakh two lakh right but if we have to
make it scalable then how we can do it
so there they have introduced this RL af
where human is not giving a preference
actually we are taking that particular
preference from the AI itself okay so
this was discussed inside this research
paper I'll show you in some time the
third technique and very uh popular and
in demand technique right now that is
called a direct optimization policy.
Okay, using the preference pair the full
form of it direct preference
optimization. Now guys this is not a
reinforcementbased training. Okay,
reinforcementbased learning. So here we
are not going to use reinforcement
learning. This is a simple supervised
learning. Okay. Simple supervised
learning means we just have input and in
the other column we will be having the
output. That's it guys. Okay. Uh so
chosen and the rejected. That's it.
Right. So uh nowadays we are using this
particular technique only. Now let me
show you the research paper regarding
each and everything. So guys uh uh uh I
will attach all this research paper in
the description. So this is the first
one. Uh the research paper name is
training language model to follow
instruction with the human feedback. So
just check out with this particular
research paper you will get so many
detail over here and uh this research
paper was published by the open AAI it's
a very good research paper on top of the
RLHF just read the instruction at least
and the couple of headings okay you will
get you will understand see here I I was
saying now they have used the PO
technique proximal policy optimization
so initially for the RLHF they have used
the PPO technique okay so just read out
uh this uh research paper now uh The
second one is the uh direct preference
optimization DPO technique. It is also
very famous technique and it was
introduced by the Stanford University.
Right? So just look into this particular
research paper. You'll get the complete
details. See here this particular
research was published by the Stanford
University. Now here you will see the uh
Indian also one Indian Arj Sarma. Uh now
the couple of other person right? So
just uh see it was released in 2024 and
just read out the abstract at least okay
you will get the complete detail of uh
like what is a DPO and how we can
implement that. Now the third technique
which is called RL Aif right so it was
inspired from the RLHF only the
difference is human is not going to be
annotate anything now like only AI will
do that so just check out with this
particular research paper it is a very
good research paper you will get uh like
very good knowledge through this
research paper okay and this was
published in 24 last year itself it's a
very latest research now here also like
you will find out so many contributor.
Okay. So, Abhinav Rastoi and Susant
Priaz is one of the guy right who
contribute inside this particular
research paper. Right. So, just read it.
You will get the complete detail of the
reward modeling and the differences
between the RLif and the RHF. Now guys,
let's look into the DPO. Okay. Okay.
Because see, we are not going to use the
RLHF technique, RLF technique as of now.
Maybe I'll show you in the future. But
that is deprecated now. people are using
DPO which is like very simpler okay and
simple to use so I will show you the
formula of it formula of the DPO and
then I will go for the uh basically
practical okay so let's start with that
so guys uh here is a DPO training loss
intuition so it's a loss function so
based on this loss function my model is
going to be trained okay uh now guys uh
you know about the supervised learning
so in the supervised learning we have
input then we have a output. Okay. Now
uh this uh output basically it is called
the actual output which we generally
demonstrate with the y and then we are
going to be predict right uh something
from the model that is called yhat. So
we check the differences between this y
and the yhat and we try to minimize see
this differences actually it is called
the loss. Okay. And we try to minimize
this uh particular loss. Right. So
that's the overall idea behind the
supervised learning. If you don't know
about it, you can learn about the uh
linear regression. You can learn about
the uh artificial neural network. Okay.
There you can learn about this
particular concept. Now uh using uh see
this is a loss function and using this
particular loss function only we are
going to train our model. Now let's try
to understand this formula. Now why why
we are understanding that? So uh let's
say someone is going to ask you in an
interview right so how did you train uh
how did you like uh perform the training
this preference training right so you
can say I perform using this dpo and
inside the dpo basically we are using
this loss function to train my model
okay it's a supervised learning only so
inside this formula we have so many term
but it is not very like uh complicated
it seems complicated but it is not let's
try to understand it okay so uh here you
can see we have this uh pi theta theta
pi reference. So pi theta actually it's
a uh perference align model okay which
was which is trained. Now this pi
reference is what this pi reference
actually it's a reference model. So it's
a uh like uh instruction tune model.
Okay which comes before the preference
alignment model. Okay. So pi theta and
pi reference is clear. Now pi this y
plus is what this bi plus actually
prefer prefer response means the uh
chosen response. Okay. with respect to
what? With respect to this prompt x
prompt. Okay. Now, uh here see this is
uh this is like my reference uh sorry
alignment model. Okay. And here
basically we are passing this uh
preferred uh this is my preferred
response with respect to this prompt.
Okay. Now here is my reference model.
Right. And here is what here is my
preferred response with respect to this
particular prompt. Right? Now uh similar
to that you can see over here. So uh the
model is there right? Y minus means
what? Y minus means rejected response
with respect to this prone. Okay, I hope
you understood it. Now we have couple of
more terms. So we have this sigmoid.
Okay. Now apart from the sigmoid, you
will find out this beta. Okay. And now
you will find out this minus E, right?
This minus E is nothing. It's a symbol.
Okay. Minus E means what? Expected,
right? What we are expecting? We are
expecting this term should be minimum.
Okay, and this term should be the
maximum one. That's it guys. Okay, just
a symbol nothing else. Right? Now let's
try to understand one by one. Uh I just
kept like I I just broke everything over
here. So a log uh pi theta okay y + with
respect to this x and then pi reference
reference model okay y + with respect to
this x. So what does this mean? The
meaning is how much more does your model
prefer the chosen answer compared to the
reference model. Okay. So here is what
here is my uh basically preferred model
and here is my reference model. So with
respect to this respon refer reference
model means my super instruction uh
supervised train model I'm checking how
this uh preference model is behaving
right now similar with respect to this
rejected prom also. Okay so the selected
prom as well as the rejected prompt. Now
what we'll see we'll see the
differences. So choose an improvement
okay and the rejected improvement. So if
it is going to be positive means means
my model is aligning to this chosen uh
prompt. Okay, the chosen output. Now
here sigmoid sigmoid what it is doing?
So you know the value of the sigmoid it
is between the 0 to one right. So it is
giving me a probability okay kind of
probability score right. Uh now here
beta means what? Beta is a scaling
factor. So if the beta is high means we
are enforcing model to like go to we are
enforcing model to align more to the
chosen okay if beta is low means the
rejected one more the model is more
aligning to the rejected okay the
typical value of the beta between 0.1 to
0.5 right and here I written the minus
meaning what is the meaning we want to
minimize the negative which means the
maximize we are going to be maximize the
positive value so uh here let's
understand the meaning one again let's
take a Quick revision. So uh this
particular term with respect to the pre
preferred response. Okay, means the
chosen response. So we have two model.
This is my uh like preference light
model. This is my reference model. Okay.
Same with respect to the rejected
response. So we are checking right how
my so here what we are checking how much
more does your model prefer the chosen
answer compared to the reference model.
Okay. So we are going to be compare with
respect to this reference model. Then uh
what we are doing we are going to be
scale it right and then we are going to
be check the probability right we are
just going to be compress the entire
value between 0 to 1 that's it guys
nothing else okay and if uh the answer
is positive okay we are getting more
positive in like multiple epoch we are
training for the multiple epochs and
this result the loss result is going to
be positive means my model is aligning
to the chosen responses that's it guys
so I hope you understood it later on uh
in a dedicated video I will show you the
derivation of Perfect. Uh now one more
thing guys before coming to the
practical. So I kept a couple of more
point with respect to this inst GPD
paper. So this paper just now I shown
you this paper right training language
model to follow instruction of the human
feedback. So this is a inst GPD research
paper. Now regarding that I kept a
couple of point some some few summarize
summarization right. So uh here human
was labeling the data right. uh so
whatever response uh we were generating
through the model humor was was ranking
those thing now using the PO basically
we are going to be find out which is
like more helpful right so this was a
chat GP uh like style alignment so which
uh initially was done by the open AI
okay now on what all prompt basically we
are finding out we are generating the we
were generating the output so on top of
the API user prompt means whatever a
user was writing okay through the API uh
okay some question answer right sorry
some public questions Basically those
prompt was taken and on top of that they
have generated answer from the mult
gened a multiple answer and then human
ranked those answer right so this is
like some uh extra information you can
confirm it from this particular research
paper it is very good uh like to
understand the uh to like to understand
how they have initiated the RLHF
technique okay now let's move to the
practical guys uh and after that uh
basically I'll show you the comparison
between all the model okay and one more
important concept with respect to the
lower adaptor. So here only we'll cover
that part.
So guys uh we had the base model if you
remember then I uh took the base model.
This base model is also called the
foundation model. Now here is my
foundation model. My base model. So I
fine-tune this model on top of the PDF
fine-tune this model on top of the PDF data
and after that I got this uh particular
model non-instruction model. Now why we
have done this thing so that my model
can understand the domain specific
language domain specific vocabulary.
Okay. Uh then I want to teach my model
proper conversation. So what I did I
fine- tuned my model on top of the input
and output data. Okay, means on
instruction data. Okay, so what I got? I
got the instruction model. Now guys, I
want to be train my model again. I
finetune that I finetune my model on
human feedback. Okay. So after that what
I will get? I will get the preferenced
model. So this is the aim for this
particular video. I hope you got it.
uh now uh for that what I'm going to do
uh I'm going to load all the libraries.
So I'm going to load the autoto
tokenizer autocausal for lm training
argument trainer lora config get pep
model task type and load data set. So I
will uh teach you the meaning of each
and every uh class each and every
function which I'm loading over here. So
yeah this is done. Now here is my base
model. Now why I'm uh I have written
this base model here so that I can load
the tokenizer. Okay, because this
tokenizer I will I will be using. So uh
yes uh the tokenizer is here. Tokenizer
is ready and I think I already explained
you the meaning of this pet uh token and
this uh end of the sentence token you
can check out with the previous uh
session itself you will get the entire
detail. Uh now what I'm doing guys so
I'm going to load my I'm going to unjip
my previous model this uh tiny llama
instruction.jip JIP model. Now why I'm
doing it? Because uh I'm using a same
model throughout this journey. Means uh
I was having a foundation model then I
the same model I train on the PDF data I
got this model then same model I train
on the instruction data I got this model
and same model I'm going to train uh on
uh this on the human feedback data and I
will get my final preference model.
Okay. So uh here what I'm doing uh see
like when I trained my model uh in the
previous class. So I saved that as a JIF
file. So this JIF file is also available
in the GitHub. You can check it out
directly. Okay. Or if you will train it
uh if you will train the d if you will
train the model from a scratch. Okay.
Over here uh using this particular
notebook this IP 1B file. Uh so at the
end you will get this uh particular
model itself. This tiny llama hyphen uh
instruction. Okay. Then you can convert
into the jip and you can save it
anywhere. That's it. Uh so uh guys uh I
have a model I have already uploaded
this particular model over here. Uh you
can see now uh let me unzip it. So after
the unzipping it what I will get? I will
get this checkpoint 3. Okay. So this is
my train checkpoint instruction
checkpoint. Uh let me uh load it. Let me
take it inside the variable. Now I'm
loading it. Okay. And I'm testing
whether everything is working fine or
not. So for that I kept one uh prompt.
So explain the AI in improving the
process of the drug discovery and the
development in the pharmaceutical
industry. So this is my prompt. Now this
uh first what I'll do I will convert
into the tokens. Okay. And I'm mapping
to my uh GPU. Now uh I will pass this
token to this uh method. So instruction
model dot generate I'm passing the token
uh along with that I'm passing some
other parameter like how many tokens I
want in the final output. some other
parameter uh with respect to some tweak
some creativity in the output. Okay. Now
repetition penalty means uh the token
should not be repeat. So regarding that
we can mention this particular score 1.1
and I think this score we can me uh we
can up uh like write up to two uh you
can check out uh the complete detail of
it. Okay. So yeah this is also one of
the parameter it will stop the
redundancy of the token. Okay. So we'll
get output. Let's see what output I'll
be getting over here. So before the
class right before the class I was
testing and uh I already run it uh okay
if you are running it first time then it
might take some time. So here is the
output. So explain how inter this is the
question. Now uh regarding that uh see
the answer is being generated. You can
get some better answer the uh if you
have much data then definitely you will
get some good answer aligned answer
itself. Uh now here this answer is also
aligned and uh it is with respect to my
question. Now I want to perform the
preference based learning. So for that
guys we are going to use this TRL uh
module. So under this TRL module only
you will get all the uh re uh all the uh
this preference tuning based classes
like DPO like RHF like RLif. Okay
different different classes you will get
under this particular module only. So uh
let me uh install it. So the command is
very simple. PIP install new TRL you
will get the latest version. Now after
that uh if you want to load a quantized
model so uh there is one more package
bits and byes. So let me load uh let me
like uh get this package also. Okay. Now
guys after executing this two command uh
pip install- utl and pip install - u
bits and based you always uh restart the
uh kernel otherwise you might get a
error uh that this package is not
visible. Okay. So let it install and
after completing this one what I'll do
I'll restart the kernel. Uh okay this is
done. Now uh what I'm doing I'm uh
checking with the runtime. Now here you
can see the restart session. Just click
on this restart session. Okay the kernel
will automatically restart. See right
hand side it is getting restarted. Now
uh load this uh step again. Okay because
after restarting this will be gone. So
yeah everything is fine. Now uh guys
this uh module is installed. This uh
bits and byes is also in installed. Now
let's try to perform the DPU training.
Now here I want to teach you one very
important concept of the Lora guys. It
is very very very important. I think
most of the beginner and even the
experienced person uh does this kind of
mistake. So I don't want to repeat that
mistake over here. Okay. And even I
rectified that mistake in the previous
solution also and definitely I will
highlight those part. So uh for this uh
preference based learning I'm using uh
this TPO trainer. Okay. Rest of the
module will be same which I already
imported in the previous cell. So from
the TRL itself we are going to import
this DPO trainer. If you are doing RLHF
or if you are using some uh if you are
doing the RLHF RLF right so from the TRL
itself you will be loading everything.
Okay so we are having this DPU trainer.
Now what I'll do so here is my base
model guys. Uh then you know this is my
instruction checkpoint right. So my
model is available over here inside this
particular checkpoint the instruction
model. Uh now after that guys uh you can
see so we are going to be load the data
set. So here the data set plays a very
important role. I will show you what
kind of data I'm using and how I created
that. Then uh I'm loading the tokenizer
and after that uh you can see we are
assigning this end of the token to the
padding token. Okay. So let me check
what is happening whether everything is
ready or not. So yes this is running
because see guys we have a limited
memory. So we might get uh some issue
with respect to the memory and RAM. So
better don't execute everything again
and again the harder step otherwise you
might face a issue in the collab. So yes
it is working fine my model is uh is
still giving me a reply. Now TRL with
respect to the TRL in bits and byes I
load reloaded the environment. Now first
of all let me import all this statement.
Okay. So after that guys what I'll do
I'll take the base model. I'll take the
instruction point. Now here is what here
is my data set. So how the data set look
like? So I already keep kept the data
set over here. Pharma preference data
dot CSV. This data could be available in
CSV as well as in the JSON format. So I
basically kept the CSV as of now. But
you can load the same from the JSON file
also. So how the data look like? See
here is a data. So inside the data you
will get the prompt. You will get the
chosen uh one column. Okay. The second
uh sorry the third column will be the
rejected. So we are giving a prompt to
the model. Then we are generating a
multiple answer. Now which answer is
being selected and which answer is being
rejected. So that particular information
we have kept over here. I think you got
this point. Now whenever we are passing
a prompt to the model. Okay. So model
will generate something. So that this
can be wrong or this this like can be
the correct one. So initially I shown
you like how the human annotated this
entire labels and all whether I have to
choose it or reject it. Later on we have
automated this task also. Okay. On a
very high scale. So this task have been
automated by the LLM only. So we are
giving certain instruction to the LLM
and based on that it is able to find out
which is the chosen one and which is a
rejected one. I hope you got it. So this
type of data we we required for what for
the training. Now here guys uh see uh we
are loading a base model. Okay we are uh
having the instruction checkpoint. Now
we have a data set also. Now what I'm
doing I'm going to be perform the
tokenization. So from the auto tokenizer
I am loading my base model. Okay. So it
will come inside this per variable
tokenizer variable. Uh then what I will
do guys. So after that uh the same thing
you will have to assign the pet token uh
you will have to assign the EOS token
end of the sentence token as a pet
token. Right. Now uh here we need to
understand one very important concept.
So we're talking about the PEP module.
Okay. So PEP is giving us uh two
different method. So see Pept right. So
from the p we are importing this pft
model and from the pft itself we are
importing this get pod model. So guys we
need to understand the differences okay
between this uh pft and get pod because
it is very much important.
So guys uh I kept the complete intuition
uh uh over my blackboard. So uh let's
understand it one by one. So what we are
doing guys uh as we know we are having
base model then we are training it for
the non-instruction model then
instruction model then preference model
okay now uh how we are doing this
training so we have a base model now we
are uh doing the lora based training and
we are getting a non-instruction model
then again we have a non-instruction
model and we are adding the lola adapter
Laura layer and we are getting a
instruction model now here again we have
a instruction model okay and uh we are
adding the LoRa we are do means uh we
will try to do the same one uh we will
add the LoRa okay and then we'll get the
preference model but guys uh to be
honest this is not a good thing this is
not a good practice and uh no one is
following that okay uh now uh see over
here what we are trying to do we have a
base model we are connecting with the
Lora okay the Lora adapter then base
model Laura then again uh in the
instruction tuning again one more lura
then we have base model Laura Lora and
then Again one more lura would be there.
We are following the same uh step over
here. So stack of the lura layer is not
good. Stack of lora is not a good idea
guys and that's a that's a step I uh
followed in my previous tutorial right
and uh you were able to see the
responses. It was not uh quite good.
Why? because the lura the lora layer was
getting in stack. Now if you don't know
about the lura don't worry in the
upcoming video I will explain you with
complete detail with a complete
mathematical derivation and all. Okay so
don't worry about the lora but let me
give you the quick definition of it what
it is. So uh here I written Lora is a
Lora is not a fully full layer. Okay
it's not a complete model. It's just a
delta patch. Okay. So delta patch cannot
be stack. They must be merged before the
next training. So what is this delta
patch? This delta patch you can think in
such a way. Uh we have a weight old
weight to this old weight we are going
to be attach some small matrix of
weight. Okay. and we'll get the
new weight.
Okay, new weight w e i g ht. Okay, so we
are having the old weight we are going
to be attached with the uh like some uh
small weights. Okay. And now this
particular patch this particular patch
the small patch. Okay. It is only called
the delta patch. Okay. So my lower is
nothing. It's a small patch. It's a
small weight which we are going to be
attach on top of my old layers. Okay.
And then what I will get? I will get my
new weights. So here is a proper
mechanism for it. Means this particular
weight is being trained. This is going
to be freeze.
This is going to be freeze. This
particular weight is going to be
trained. Now after the training it will
be merged into the old weights. So
that's a whole sort of a idea of the
Lora. We'll discuss it in a more detail
in the upcoming session. So this delta W
is called the patch and this is only
called the delta patch. Okay. And this
is my lower weight. Now we no need to
stack the LRA weights. Okay. See this is
my W the original weight. If we are
doing a non-instructional training on
the same model, we'll get this W1 DW1.
Then we are doing a uh we are doing the
instruction tuning on top of the same
model. Then we are going to be attached
this uh DW2. Then for the preference
learning again delw3. So we should not
take this particular step and this was
the mistake even which I made in the
previous solution. Okay. I will give you
the correct uh approach which approach
basically you can follow uh uh for the
lora. Okay. If you are uh using a same
model again and again for the training
that how to use lura efficiently it's
very very very important. Now what is
the disadvantage of this thing? So the
disadvantage is loss will be unstable.
Model will hallucinate. Uh tuning will
not be good and the quality will
degrade. Why? Why it will degrade?
Because loss will be unstable. We won't
be able to figure out the loss properly.
Right? If we are having this kind of
weight, if we are going to be uh uh we
are going to be create a stack of the
lura, right?
Uh so what is the solution of it? So to
use the LoRa in an efficient way, that's
a solution. Let me show you how. So
let's discuss how we can use LoRa in a
better way. So if you will check PEP
guys. So this PEP is giving me two
method. One uh is get PET model. Uh the
second is uh PEFT model from pre-train.
Okay. So when we have use when we have
to use this get pept model and when we
have to use this particular method. So
definitely we'll uh we'll be talking
about it. Now here we have a get pel. So
it creates a new lura during the
training means the new lura patch the
delta patch which I showed you. Now this
pft model dot from pre-trained. Now what
it does? So it load a already trained
lura model. Okay, for the inference or
for the further training, right? So we
are going to use this particular method
for loading the previous LORA weights
for the like or for loading the previous
uh train Laura model and then on top of
it uh only we are going to perform the
finetuning. Okay, but the way is going
to be little different. See over here
observe over here what we are doing. So
uh we have a lura configuration. So here
I'm writing task type is going to be
causal lm that is for the uh next token
prediction okay for the language
modeling then there's the rank of the
lora r is r is representing the rank
lura alpha is one of the parameter lora
dropout okay one of the parameter uh
it's a hyperparameter you can keep any
sort of a value of it just to test your
uh output means just to like uh check
what uh impact it is having on the final
output then uh which like module we are
targeting in the attention layer so we
are mentioning that part over here and
bias is equal to none so this is what
this is my lower configuration now what
we were doing guys uh in the previous
class and even uh if I didn't find out
the current approach then what we would
be doing let me explain you that first
okay then we'll come to the correct
approach so we are having this method
get pet model so we are simply passing
this uh instruction model okay and then
we are passing this lura configuration
so we were get we we were thinking okay
now we will get a model which we can
tune further but guys this is a wrong
approach. Now what we are doing over
here we are having the instruction model
and on top of it we are going to be
connect the lora stack okay so the stack
of the lora again and again okay on a
like same model which which we are
training on a different different phases
uh to app to append the lora okay to
create a lora stack it is not a good
practice okay so what is the correct
approach let me tell you that so first
what we'll do guys we will load the base
model so uh here is my base model okay
I'm not going to take this particular
step I'm just going to be commented out
means directly I'm not going to be take
a model means directly see here I'm
giving my instruction model which I
loaded earlier from the jip uh okay and
uh here I'm attaching the lora tag and
then I'm getting this p model lura but
I'm not going to perform this thing
because this is not a correct approach
so what I will do guys so first I will
load my base model okay inside this
particular variable I was having the
base model so let let me show you this
base model which uh was there so here is
the base model Okay, so we are able to
load the base model. I got it inside
this variable. Now in the second step,
what I will do uh using this method pept
model dot from pre-train. Okay, I'm
passing this model, my base model and
I'm passing my instruction checkpoint
means uh this instruction model. Okay,
this particular model. Now uh after that
what I will do uh so after loading this
thing I will get my model. Okay, so this
uh model this base model basically it is
connecting to the instruction
checkpoint. Right. Now what I will do? I
will merge it. Okay, merge and unload
the weight means uh I was having the
base model. Uh on top of it I will keep
the lora weights. I will merge both
weight. Okay, and after that I will get
my model. So here is my model. Now what
I will do on top of this model only I
will connect the lura stack. So here is
get pep model. I am passing my model and
then I'm passing the lura configuration.
Right? So just check out all the thing.
It is very much important guys. very
very very important see over here so
what I'm trying to say uh just just
focus over here just for one more minute
okay guys so we are having the base
model we perform the non- instruction
fine-tuning okay after the lora and we
got the uh non-instruction model then uh
again we were having the instruction
data we performed the instruction tuning
and we got the instruction model okay
now this two thing this non-instruction
model I did with the Laura instruction
finetuning again I have loaded this
non-instruction model and I attach with
the Lora and then again I perform the
training and then now the same thing I'm
going to do with the preference model
also but guys this is the wrong
technique okay to create a lower ST like
this which I explain over here it is not
a good thing why because we might get
this kind of issues so what is the best
approach the best approach is uh first
guys uh see here is my uh here is my uh
basically this instruction model this
one this is my instruction model
checkpoint 3 okay which I already
trained right So what I'm doing over
here see just focus for one more minute.
So uh here basically what we have we
have a lora configuration that is fine.
Now I'm not going to be like pass this
instruction model and we are going to be
uh uh create a lora uh again on top of
it and then uh I'm calling it is my
preference model which I'm going to tune
for the no. So uh here I'm taking a base
model. Uh so I'm loading it. Now after
that we are going to be connected to the
instruction checkpoint. Okay. Now after
that I'm calling this method merge and
unload. So merge and unload what it will
do? It will merge model my freeze model
as well as the instruction Lora. Okay.
Then on top of it I will create the Lora
patch. Now this particular patch is
going to be trained. Okay. Now this
particular patch is going to be trained.
So this this model which I got now pep
preference model Laura. Okay. See uh
this my method get pep model. I'm
passing my model. I'm passing my lura
configuration. Now I will get the delta
patch. Okay, I I will get the lura
patch. Delta the delta right now that
particular uh so I'm keeping it over
here inside this particular variable.
Now I will be training this model on top
of my uh on top of my preference data
set. Right? So here I created one table
also non-instruction base Lora it is
correct instruction base plus merge okay
stage one lura then new lora this is the
correct approach directly lura on lura
it is not a correct approach now
preference base so base model then merge
stage two lura then plus new lura this
is the correct approach lura on lura on
lura this is not a correct approach I
think now you got the complete lura so
let's uh train my model so here I am
going to be write bits and biases
disabled true and don't want to be
capture any sort of a metrics. So uh
here guys I'm going to be define my DPO
trainer from the TRL. So TRL is giving
me these classes DPO trainer and the DPO
config. So yeah uh this is fine. Now
what I will do uh I will create a object
of this class DPO basically config. Now
uh here I'm writing a directory uh in
which directory in whatever directory I
want to be saved my model. Uh here I
have a learning rate uh and then I have
train batches. Okay, gradient uh
accumulate accumulation step right at uh
how many step we are going to be uh
accumulate the gradient value uh number
of training epoch how many for how many
epoch you want to be running beta value
report to none I don't want to report
any on any uh basically platform okay uh
so here also I did that same thing and
you can mention this parameter also
logging directly none as of now I don't
want to be log anything loss type is
sigmoid okay we'll collect the we'll
calculate the loss with this particular
function remove unused column. Okay,
false. I don't I'm not going to be
remove any uh column as of now. I know
guys uh you get the little difficulty
while you go through with this all all
this particular parameter. We have so
many parameter if you will hover the
mouse over here you will get maybe so we
have so many parameter over here maybe
hundreds of parameter so don't worry
guys it is my responsibility to teach
you everything I will create a proper
video on top of each and every parameter
of these classes okay it is my promise
so uh let me uh take this dp argument
now here I'm defining the dpu trainer
there I'm passing my model okay uh which
uh the model basically here you can see
this particular model this one
preference model Laura Now how how I got
this model? So I was having the base
model. Okay. I on top of it I appended
this instruction checkpoint. I merged
both the baits. Now on top of this
particular model on top of this
particular weights uh okay this this
particular model I attach the delt this
uh uh like lower patch. Okay. And then I
got this model and further I'm going to
train it now. Okay. Uh now uh here is my
model and reference uh model. I'm not
passing any reference model otherwise I
can pass the reference model over here.
Uh that is also one of the facility.
Okay. Uh argument so DPU argu argument
this this particular argument which I
defined over here. Now after that guys
uh training data set. So data set which
I loaded. Okay. From the CSV this this
particular CSV this I shown you. Okay.
Only five data point you can keep as
many as uh then uh here processing class
uh that is tokenizer. Okay. So if I will
run this trainer. So see uh it is saying
preference model is not defined. So let
me run it first. Okay, I got this one.
This is fine. This is perfect. DP
argument is also fine. DP trainer is
also perfect. Now trainer.train. Now
guys, uh this is my final step for
training the model. So trainer train and
yes my model is getting trained. It will
take time guys if we have a huge model
and the very huge data set. As of now it
is a quick because we have a very small
model. Not very small guys. We have a
small model with a very small data set
and my poke is one and I kept the
parameter in such a way it won't take
much time just to show you guys just to
show you but in a real time you will be
doing it with a huge amount of data so
it will take maybe days okay uh now uh
here uh it is just a testing so testing
uh with non-instruction model okay so
here is my question explain how
mattforming works in the human body and
why some research believe it could have
benefits beyond diabetes treatment. So
guys uh if uh I will test this question
with my different different model. Okay.
So let me test for two model instruction
and the preference. You can test from
your end this one non-instruction one.
Okay. So this is my question guys. Now
what I'm doing? So here is my testing
with the instruction point model. So
this was my checkpoint. Okay.
Instruction one. Now I'm going to be
load this model. See instruction model
would be here. uh I'm going to qu uh
tokenize this question. Okay. And then
I'm going to generate a output and then
here will be my final output. So let's
see what will be my final output. Guys,
we'll compare the output. Okay. We'll
compare the output of the instruction
model as well as the preference model.
Let's see the difference uh whether we
are getting some uh like good uh uh
terms terminology something like that
right. So it is saying question is not
defined. Let me execute it. Okay. So
here we have a question. Now model is
there. Input tokenizer is ready. Okay.
Now here is my output and then I will be
getting the final output. So let it
complete and uh
yeah I will get the final output guys.
Just a second it takes some time. Yeah.
So this is the output. Now see guys
explain how metforming this is that. Now
see this is the answer. Cone disease
inflammation bowel disease. I don't know
this is correct or not. You should check
it out. Right? But guys, there's some
redundancy uh in the output uh because I
did the mistake uh in the previous uh
training. Okay, I will come to that just
a second. Now, here is my model path. Uh
this is my LoRa model uh this one
preference based model. Okay, see here I
saved that model inside this uh folder
tiny llama preference alignment. See
there's a folder. Okay, now what I'm
doing, I'm going to be uh load my model.
Model path is here. I'm going to be load
my model. Now I'm going to be uh like uh
connect with the CUDA okay to the GPU.
Then uh guys I'm going to be uh uh like
tokenize the question okay I will be
getting inside the input. Now this input
I'm passing to my model. Okay preference
alignment model for the final
generation. Now let's see the final
output. So let's see what I will be
getting over here. So it takes time. The
output generation might take time. Let
it complete. It depends on the infra
also. We have a good GPU, good intra.
Now see guys explain how metaphformin
works in a human body. This is that. Now
see metaphform and common diabetes drug
two type deal. So see guys you can
clearly see the difference. So
difference between this normal like
output from the instruction tuning and
the output from the after uh like output
after the alignment. Okay. So guys, you
can make a difference over here means uh
uh like you are you have trained a model
on top of the instruction data that is
fine. That is completely fine. I'm not
denying that. But if you want to more
enhance on the human preferences, you
can take one more step like this chat
GPT have done. If you're training your
model from a scratch, this will be very
very very helpful. Now I was saying
guys, I have done one mistake. So uh the
mistake basically I rectified over here.
Uh if you will go and check with the
instruction tuning. So I written that
code over here. You can uh now execute
this file and uh in whatever way I have
explained you this lura stack over here.
Okay. So see this I'm not going to be
follow now means I will not append lura
lura. First I will merge the weight and
then only I will append the lora uh lura
patch. Okay. So I kept the code over
here. Let me show you where it is. Uh
this one, this one, this one. Now let's
uh Okay. I think it will be the blue
uh Okay. I think it will be the blue one.
So see guys this one okay I kept the
complete code you can go through with it
you can run it and then you can train
your model. So fine guys uh this is it
for this particular video in the next
video I will uh come up uh with uh some
different framework okay to teach you
this fine tuning. Uh yeah so thank you
guys. Thank you for watching it. If you
haven't subscribed my YouTube channel
please subscribe. uh this kind of uh
content takes very much effort guys to
research and all and then record. Uh so
please uh respect for all those thing
and subscribe the channel because see
guys it is free for you I know but uh it
uh it is very important for me okay your
subscribe your like your support
everything so fine uh I'll see you in
the next video thank you bye-bye take